---
---


## Chapter 6

It took the ship with Jacob and the others another twenty minutes
to reach the station and the other ship.  Their ship had turned a few
minutes before, shifting the view of their destination from ceiling to
floor, and begun firing its engines again.  They were closing in on
the ship Trace had spotted near the top of the station.  Looking
toward the planet, the great X stretched down below them for klicks.
As they'd approached, Jacob noticed that there was some light
scaffolding or cables spanning the distance between the bottom of the
X and inside surface of the round cap, about twice the width of one of
the X's arms.

E struggled to gauge the actual scale of the station, but even with
eir eye, the lack of any familiar shapes to judge distance by, the
stark lighting, and the lack of any parallax through the images on the
walls all defeated em.

The ship they were nearing had a central body circled by two silver
toroids.  The body was a cylinder about half-again taller than its
diameter.  Above and below the straight sides of the cylindrical
section were squat cones, their sides curving in so their profiles
were ogee arches, the points rounded into hemispheres.  The bottom
hemisphere glittered in the sun.

The toroids around the ship looked shiny and polished, like silver or
chrome, in contrast to the matte light grey of the rest of it.  With
the closer view, Jacob could see that the two weren't actually
continuous--they were each made up of several different-length
segments whose ends didn't touch.  Instead, there was a column that
branched from each segment, from different points with different
angles, and went inward toward the body of the ship.  The columns
themselves then divided repeatedly into smaller and smaller branches.
Overall, the effect was as if each segment of the toroids had a tree
sprouting from it, the branches of each mingling with those from the
nearby segments and other toroid, so the main cylinder of the ship
seemed to rest on top of a forest canopy.  Except the floor of this
forest was bent into a ring around the ship's center.

As they continued, E could tell they were lined up to pass directly
over the top point of the ship and they were still slowing relative to
it.  When they reached a point directly above the hemisphere, they
were still relative to the now-large ship below them.  Then their
little ship rotated to place the hemispheric dome below the floor.
Though, with still absolutely no feeling of motion, it felt to Jacob
more like the universe was spinning around em.  E was caught by a new
wave of nausea, and momentarily wondered if it might all be a show,
if everything they'd seen and E'd been so intent on capturing and
remembering, were simply images projected on walls, and they were
still in the ship on the amphitheater stage.

E shuddered and banished the worry--there was no question E'd seen the
small ship land in front of em.  And besides, being fooled into
watching a movie was hardly the worst outcome he'd imagine might come
from taking a Selector.

Then their ship started to move down toward the hemisphere below,
smoother than an elevator.  E could see that they were actually
off-center and coming down toward its sloping side.  As they got close
enough Jacob felt like E could jump the distance, the surface of the
hemisphere just below began to pucker away from them, making a dimple,
then a pocket, in the hemisphere's surface.  When they were well into
the pocket, with its rim showing above the ceiling of their cabin, the
bottom of the pocket seemed to pop.  A hole formed in its center,
quickly widening irregularly, like a slow-motion video of a bubble or
balloon collapsing.  At the same time, a new surface seemed to be
shooting up from the opening in the hemisphere around them.  Within
fifteen seconds, the pocket below and around them was entirely gone,
and a new one had formed above, protruding from the hemisphere and
contracting as they continued to descend.

The pocket's withdrawal revealed a large, brightly lit chamber.  It
was about thirty meters across, and extended down about six from the
curve of the hemisphere over them.  The walls and curved ceiling were
a lavender so light it was almost white, with the floor a couple of
shades darker.  There were two other small ships like theirs on the
floor within, spaced so that, once theirs had settled, they were at
the points of a triangle around the center of the chamber.  There was
a cluster of figures standing near where they would touch down.

The rate of their descent hadn't changed at all until they were only a
couple of meters above the floor, when the legs of their ship extended
suddenly and brought them to a halt on the floor.  Instantly after,
the images cleared from the inside of the two hatches they'd entered
by and the opened out and up.

They were _not_ still in the amphitheater.  Jacob felt the evaporation
of a tiny hope E hadn't realized E'd had.  Bright light streamed
through the hatch and E saw the same view the rest of the walls were
still showing: the large chamber around them, and a group of five
Chaiken a few meters back from where the ship came to rest.  E looked
around, trying to get a hint from the Chaiken or Trace as to what to
do next.  The Chaiken were unmoved, and Trace was still standing next
to 'ru.  After a moment, E simply returned to the couch where E'd been
drawing, and started repacking eir supplies.

Jacob heard a rustling noise from floor above; guessed it might
indicate the other four Saviors were about to come down.  The others
must have also heard.  'ru and 'tah stood; Trace looked up, and then
walked over so that E was next to the base of the stairs.  A moment
later, the Chaiken began to descend the stairs.  The first down was
the one wearing blue.

When E'a stepped off the stairs, Trace was next to em'a, reached out
eir hand, and said "Hello, I'm Trace.  What would you like me to call
you?"  And E got a response.

"Ahn-joyfangtomy.  Youse may abridge like 'my."  'my said nothing
else, shook Trace's hand, and then walked out through one of the open
hatches.

Trace repeated the exchange with the next Chaiken down, in the brown
dickey, and learned eir name was "Ahn-sofnahelmin" or "'min".

As the remaining two Chaiken came past Trace, E repeated eir address
with the exact same language, and got identical replies.  E learned
that the one in the white skirt was Ahn-fortayohliliva and the one in
the safron braccae was Ahn-halangmartilkar.  Like the others, their
nicknames were the last syllables of their full names, 'iva and 'kar.

Jacob struggled to focus on all the new names.  E'd already lost the
full names for 'tah and 'ru, and would have to find a moment alone to
ask Trace to remind em of them.  Thankfully, E had sketched thumbnails
of all six so E'd be able to note the names with the faces later.  The
way their skin and hair colors shifted, E wasn't sure E'd recognize
any of them after they change clothes.

With 'kar's exit, there were only four of them left in the ship.  'tah
and 'ru stepped beside each of the two hatches and made exaggerated
after-you sweeping gestures toward the hatches.  Trace turned and
walked back along the stairs to eir massive bag on the floor.  Jacob
leaned over to start collecting eir'a things, and was just hefting the
second shoulder bag when Trace reached a hatch and stepped through.
E'a hurried after em, feeling the same sensation wash across eir skin
as E passed through that E had when boarding.  But E also felt a
slight lurch forward, and eir foot struck the floor harder than E
expected.  Regaining eir balance as E was all the way out, E realized
that E felt somehow slightly heavier outside the little ship.

Trace had stopped a couple of meters from the little ship, between it
and the group of Chaiken.  Jacob stood next to eir.  "We wait?"

"Definitely."

The Chaiken that had been waiting to meet them were joined by the ones
disembarking.  E didn't see any hugs, but several times a pair would
make a gesture where their hands met, palm to palm, at waist level,
and then would move up, their forearms rolling toward each other until
they were pressed together down to the elbow and their hands at
shoulder level.  Then they would part.  A couple of times he saw them
do it with only one arm from each as they passed beside each other.

E also heard them speaking, E assumed, in something that was decidedly
_not_ Noyglish.  The sounds using were fast, almost chopped, and there
seemed to be a much wider variety, including different tones, clicks
and pops, and a couple of whistles.  E also noticed that the changes
in each's skin color pattern, which had changed gradually for the
Chaiken when E'd first seen them, and hardly at all with 'ru and 'tah
on the trip from Haran, were now startlingly fast, like the ooze of
room-temperature molasses.

The welcoming group varied as much as the Chaiken who had come to the
surface both in clothing, and in skin color and pattern.  But their
clothes did have one common feature.  All of their tops had two orange
stripes on each side, one vertical ending under the arm, about three
centimeters wide, and the other horizontal about ten centimeters long,
at a level about half-way up the ribs.  Jacob wondered if it was a
uniform, a badge, or perhaps signified dress that was more or less
formal than what they'd word to the city.

They continued to wait for their hosts.  E looked around.  Aside from
the three small ships, the chamber seemed empty.  The lighting was
soft and indirect.  Looking for the source, E realized that the entire
ceiling dome was actually glowing faintly.  The floor had a rough
texture, as if the surface was a layer of tiny pebbles, a millimeter
wide and smaller.  But nothing shifted as E rubbed eir boot back and
forth on it, and there was a slight sponginess to it.  There were two
spots, on opposite sides of the room, where there were depressions
angling down along the outer wall, with openings in the floor nearby.

Eventually, 'ru, 'tah, and two of the greeting party separated from
the others and walked back to the humans.  The other Chaiken began
toward the openings in the floor behind and to Jacob's left.  'tah
spoke, "Should thou accompany for quarters."

With that, the other three Chaiken started toward the wall on their
right.  'tah gestured that Jacob and Trace should follow.  As they
reached the wall, Jacob saw that the depressions in the floor were
actually the tops of ramps, about three meters wide.  At the top end
of each, the floor was flat for about four meters, and then there was
simply an opening in the floor.  The hole was about three meters
square with rounded corners, surrounded by a coaming about ten
centimeters wide and raised from the floor about half that.  There
were half a dozen circular pads protruding into the opening from its
inside edge.

The group turned toward the ramp and walked down the gentle slope.  At
first the walls were solid on either side of them, but as they
descended the wall on their left, toward the center of the ship, they
reached a point where the bottom of the wall and top of the ramp split
and curved away from each other.  Continuing, there was no wall to
their left, and it was clear that the floor of the chamber above was
almost two meters thick.  After they'd walked half the circumference
of the level above, they came to another flat patch where the ramp
merged into the floor of the level below the chamber they'd landed in.
What Jacob could see of this level was a wide circular promenade the
ramp had descended into, about 8 meters wide, bounded by the outer
wall of the ship on eir right, and a concentric inner wall on eir
left.  E didn't see any openings in the inner wall.

In front of them was another hole in the floor, about half a meter in
from the outer wall, with the matching hole back into the landing
chamber above directly over it.  There was a row of four windows, each
about two meters square.  Two were in the wall next to the holes, with
one more on either side.  Through the windows E could see space and
unblinking stars, with about a quarter of the view occupied by the
dark limb of Primary.  The reflected light shone from the outside of
the ship, letting em see the outward slope of the ships body below
them, and the shiny toroids beyond that.

As they walked around the hole in the floor to the ramp that started
beyond it, Jacob peered down into it.  It was a long way down.  There
were matching holes through at least a dozen levels, and far below E
could see figures that looked like they were standing in mid-air,
rising and falling past each other.  E got a knot in eir stomach, and
looked away.

They continued on the ramp down three more levels, by which point the
outward curve of the ship's surface provided enough room that the
width of the ramp was entirely outboard of the shaft implied by the
holes in the floors.  Aside from the first, the floors of each level
were all about fifteen centimeters thick, with rounded edges where the
ramps passed through.  The landings on each level between ramps no
longer occurred in the same places as the series of holes passed
through, but each landing did continue to have a set of windows next
to it.

At the next level, the pattern was interrupted.  In the center of the
landing stood a dark figure.  E was short, about a meter and a half
tall, and eir surface was a shiny jet black that seemed to glitter as
they approached.  Eir shape was basically human, with a torso, arms,
legs, and a head, but with many of the details missing.  Jacob
couldn't tell if eir surface was clothing or skin.  It was continuous,
without opening or seam.  So perhaps skin.  But if em was standing
before them nude, E was remarkably smooth.  Not just hairless and
sexless, but with none of the compound curves that reflected a
person's underlying muscles.  Eir head was a simple oval atop a
perfectly round column of neck.  There was no discernible ears or
mouth, though eir face had a protrusion suggesting a nose and dimples
where eyes might be.

As they reached em, E spread eir hands, bowed slightly from the waist
and more from the neck, and said in a warm tenor "Welcome.  I am
Selanthon, or Sel for short, and will be serving as your liaison
during your stay with us.  Your quarters a quite a few floors below us
yet.  Would you prefer to continue to walk, or to learn to use the
lift pads?"

Jacob was surprised and relieved to hear something E could be certain
E understood.  Encouraged by this and by Trace's success earlier, E
stepped forward and stretched out eir hand.  "Hello Sel, I am Jacob
and very pleased to meet you."

Sel held out eir hand and said softly "Don't be shocked."  Jacob took
eir hand and... was shocked.  Eir'a hand had passed through Sel's,
closing on nothing but air and grit.  Before E'a could figure out what
was in eir'a hand, E'a looked at eir wrist and gasped.  There was just
a swirl in the air where eir hand had been, and eir forearm was
hollow, nothing but eir glittering outer surface and air.  E'a opened
eir'a hand and saw eir palm and fingers coated with tiny black dots,
like a fist full gloss-black poppy seeds.

"I'm sorry that startled you, Jacob.  But I do appreciate your wanting
to be polite.  I am primarily an electronic cognition simulacrum--the
appearance of a body is to make your interactions with me more
natural.  Please let me know if you would prefer another shape."  As E
had spoken, Jacob had been wiping off eir'a hand.  Most of the
particles that fell began to hover and float back toward Sel.  Those,
and perhaps more from within eir, resolved into a new hand shape,
indistinguishable from how em started.

Sel shifted slightly to face Trace.  "And you are Trace.  Your
descriptions have preceded you.  I hope that you, too, feel welcomed."

Jacob noticed that when Sel spoke, the sound came directly from eir
chest.  And when E wasn't speaking, he could hear a faint whooshing
noise, like a faint fan.

Trace stepped forward with eir arms level at eir waist and wrists bent
so eir palms faced Sel.  E'a responded in kind, and the two repeated
the gesture that they'd seen the Chaiken making earlier upstairs.

When they were done and Trace stepped back, Jacob heard a rhythmic
thumping noise behind em.  Turning back to the Chaiken that had
accompanied them, E saw that the two with stripes on their shirts were
doing the most pathetic attempt at clapping E could imagine.  They
both had their wrists bent so their palms faced each other, and were
moving their entire arms back and forth by pivoting only at the
shoulders, smashing their hands together over and over in front of
their navels.  Thankfully, they soon stopped.

_If trying hard is all it takes for people from very different
cultures to get along_, Jacob thought, _then this might not be that
bad of a trip after all._

"So," said Trace, "do we want to keep walking, or try to learn 'lift
pads?'"

Jacob click-clicked with his tongue.  "Sel, how much longer do you
think it would take to walk?"  E felt tired, with the excitement at
being Selected and experiencing space flight fading away, and the
fatigue from having been excited for hours straight starting to settle
on em.

"Perhaps another forty-five minutes," Sel offered.

That made em feel more tired.  If the Chaiken E'd seen earlier
floating within the holes in the floors had been using lift pads, E
wasn't sure that E wanted to try to learn right now.  But E was
definitely sure E didn't want to find emself begging the Chaiken for
something to ride twenty minutes from now.

"I guess the lift pads then.  I'm feeling like I'd like to go to sleep
sooner than later."

"Excellent," said Sel, doing an impressive job of miming someone
rubbing their hands together in anticipation.  "Please walk this way."
With that, Sel turned away from them and began walking inward from
where they stood by the windows and outer wall of the ship.

Jacob's attention had been so captured by Sel that E hadn't noticed
that this level was not at all like the others.  The floor here was a
circular promenade as they'd seen on the other levels, but instead of
the inside of the promenade ending at a featureless round wall, here
there was a pit.  E could see entirely across the ship at this level.
It was a circle perhaps sixty meters across, with the promenade all
around the outside and a hole about forty meters across in the center.

Looking down, E could see that there were three levels with matching
central holes  The floor of the level below that seemed mostly solid.
On the opposite side of the ship from where they were standing, Jacob
could see another pair of ramps--one from above, the other going
down.  Just in front of em, where Sel was now standing, was an opening
in the floor, with a square opening above it that E assumed matched
the openings they'd passed all the way up to the hemispherical chamber
at the top of the ship.  But instead of being a square, the opening in
the floor at their level started under the square from above, but
extended all the way to where the circular hole in the floor, so that
it made a long rectangular gap.  And the same was true near the ramp
landing on the opposite side of the ship.  And there were two other
matching gaps a quarter of the way around to the left and the right.
They were arranged so that if they'd extended to the center of the
ship, they'd form a giant plus-sign with three-meter wide strokes.
Through the gaps, E could see that the floors of the next two levels
below them were configured to match.  Below that, the central hole
shrank to about eight meters across but the gaps in the floors
continued to extend almost the full diameter of the ship.

Jacob slowly walked up to the end of the gap in the floor by them,
where Trace and Sel already were.  The canyon below them stretched
down more than 20 levels, to a point where it looked like the floor
was solid.  Eir stomach clenched.

As with the other holes they'd passed, there were a number of circles,
perhaps two-thirds of a meter wide each, extending into the hole from
different points around the edges.  One of the Chaiken that they
hadn't talked to yet stepped between them and onto one of the circles.

"That is a lift pad," Sel said, gesturing.  "You'll each use a
separate one.  You will each get on one next to Ahn-senpoor here.
When you do, step so that you are standing in the center and your
feet are even with each other.  Then, hold 'poor's hand with one of
yours, and keep your other hand at your side and your feet still.  Go
ahead and do that when you're ready."

Trace stepped first, away from Jacob, so that E put 'poor on her left
side.  E stepped, stood, and took eir'a hand.  Both of the pads under
them stayed put.  Jacob followed, taking 'poor's hand in eirs'e.  It
felt warm, dry, comfortable.  The only thing making it feel
_different_ was how much extra fingers E'a had.

Sel continued.  "The pads are controlled with your feet and arms.
To descend, step one foot forward slightly.  The distance you move
your foot forward controls how rapidly you go down.  To go up, step
one foot backward.  The pads will automatically avoid each other, so
you don't have to worry about coming down on top of someone.  Your
arms control motion in the plane of the floors, which we won't need
tonight, so try to keep them still."

E walked into the open space of the hole, around behind Trace, and
stood in mid-air next to 'poor.  "I'm going to count to three.  On the
beat after the clap, move one of your feet about a centimeter
forward.  Do not let go of 'poor's."  E turned eir head toward each of
them in turn, as if looking at them for confirmation.

"Alright.  One.  Two.  Three."

Jacob moved eir right foot.  The pad E was standing on started to move
down, shifting a little way inward from the edge of the hole as it did
so.  For about the first meter, Jacob fell fastest, followed by Trace
on 'poor.  But then their speeds evened out, and their pads slowly
drifted so they were on the same level as they continued to descend
together.  Sel descended along side them, without a pad, seeming to
simply be standing next to them with eir'a hands clasped together in
front of em.  They were going down a little faster than if they were
on an escalator, around three or four seconds per level.

At first they were dropping straight down, and from level to level the
ends of the floor gaps became farther away from them.  It seemed that
they were still within the curved-in cone at the top of the ship, so
each level they passed was wider than the one before.  After passing
through several levels the length of the gaps became consistent, and
the group started drifting sideways along with down, until they were
descending near the ends of the gaps again.  Jacob wondered if that
were also somehow automatic, or something that Sel or 'poor was doing
that E couldn't see.

"To stop descending, just move your foot back to being in line with
the other.  If you stop near a floor, the pad will automatically come
into line with the level.  We are going to stop one level above the
solid floor you see below us.  I'm going to count to three again, and
after I do, move your forward foot back to center."

Sel paused for a long moment, and then "One.  Two.  Three."

All three pads slowed rapidly about a meter above the floor, and then
drifted the rest of the way down to touch the outboard edge of the
floor gap and stopped.  Trace whooped and literally leapt from eir pad
into a corridor.

Jacob let go of 'poor's hand, and realized that eir had been sweating.
E looked up into 'poor's eyes.  Eir'a face was round except for a
narrow chin, and eir'a eyes were blue with brown semi-circles at the
bottoms of the irises.  "Thank you," said Jacob.

'poor replied "Pleasant self."
