---
---


## Chapter 7

Trace's landing on the new floor was satisfyingly solid, the feeling
of eir feet and legs taking eir weight while the ground stayed put was
reassuring, even though E seemed noticeably heavier since they'd
arrived.  E was also relieved eir balance was steady--while they'd
been coming down, E'd felt mild waves of dizziness as they'd passed
through each floor.

E looked around.  They were in a large alcove, about six meters
square, that connected from the floor gap behind eir to a corridor
that went to the left and right.  While Jacob was still dismounting
the pad and saying something behind eir, E walked forward to look
around the corner.  The hallway was long, about four meters wide, and
curved away behind eir in both directions.  There were recessed
panels, which E guessed were doorways, every seven or eight meters
along the outer wall, with only a couple doors in the inner wall
visible.  They were all tall, almost to the ceiling, and just a bit
wider than Trace was used to.

The floor here had the same slightly-rough texture and spring as it
had everywhere they'd been in the ship so far, but here it was a light
pastel green.  The ceiling was an even lighter shade of green, with
that same uncanny not-quite-glow as the others.  It was clear the
lighting was coming evenly from the ceiling, and it was bright, but it
gave no sense that the light was actually originating from it.  As if
the hall was lit with indirect lighting bounced off the ceiling
without the original source being evident.

The walls were largely covered with patterns, in light colors, mostly
pastels with occasional vivid details.  Trace had the impression of a
series of murals, either abstracts or impressionist renderings of
things E couldn't recognize.  The doors were decorated as well, some
to blend into the surrounding image, some to complement it, and the
frames around each were unique.
