---
---


## Chapter 7

Trace's landing on the new floor was satisfyingly solid, the feeling
of eir feet and legs taking eir weight while the ground stayed put was
reassuring, even though E seemed noticeably heavier since they'd
arrived.  E was also relieved eir balance was steady--while they'd
been coming down, E'd felt mild waves of dizziness as they'd passed
through each floor.

E looked around.  They were in a large alcove, about six meters
square, that connected from the floor gap behind eir to a corridor
that went to the left and right.  While Jacob was still dismounting
the pad and saying something behind eir, E walked forward to look
around the corner.  The hallway was long, about four meters wide, and
curved away behind eir in both directions.  There were recessed
panels, which E guessed were doorways, every seven or eight meters
along the outer wall, with only a couple doors in the inner wall
visible.  They were all tall, almost to the ceiling, and just a bit
wider than Trace was used to.

The floor here had the same slightly-rough texture and spring as it
had everywhere they'd been in the ship so far, but here it was a light
pastel green.  The ceiling was an even lighter shade of green, with
that same uncanny not-quite-glow as the others.  It was clear the
lighting was coming evenly from the ceiling, and it was bright, but it
gave no sense that the light was actually originating from it.  As if
the hall was lit with indirect lighting bounced off the ceiling
without the original source being evident.

The walls were largely covered with patterns, in light colors, mostly
pastels with occasional vivid details.  Trace had the impression of a
series of murals, either abstracts or impressionist renderings of
things E couldn't recognize.  The doors were decorated as well, some
to blend into the surrounding image, some to complement it, and the
frames around each were unique.  The exceptions to the murals were two
sections of wall, one that was two doors to the right, the other four
doors to the left, that were completely blank.  The walls and the
doors in them were a flat and the same very light green as the
ceiling, but without the glow.

Jacob and Sel walked up to join em.  E turned back and saw that 'poor
had left them.  Sel said "The suites behind the blank walls are
youse's--youse can decorate them if youse want.  The doors will open
automatically as youse approach them, from either side.  The door,
lights, and other things in youse's rooms will respond to requests in
youse's voice only--simply talk to the room as if it were an entity
named Schön.

"Aboard ship, we keep a 24-hour day that matches Old Earth.  Abshuman
that we are aware of all adjust to it easily, and we believe that, as
natural humans, the same will be true of youse.  It is currently 37
minutes after midnight, ship's time, so youse should try to go to
sleep soon.  When youse wake tomorrow, and any time you wish really,
tell youse's room youse want to talk to me.  Once youse are both
ready, I'll collect youse, make additional introductions to people
aboard ship, and help youse with anything youse would like for youse's
rooms.

"Is there anything else I can tell you tonight?"

Trace chewed eir lip.  Jacob spoke up first:  "We've been selected to
travel with youse, right?  I'd like you tell us to where and for how
long?"

Sel nodded eir blank head, and said "We are taking youse on a tour to
meet representatives of several key abshuman clades, in order to get
them to agree that youse and youse's are wholly human and that the
society youse have maintained since being Planted in Haran is stable
and the production of future catastrophe implausible.  Depending on
how each evaluation proceeds, the tour should only take a few months.
We will be collecting additional people tomorrow, and leaving this
star system the day after."

Trace felt like this explanation was far more likely to keep em awake
than the unknown had been, but what's known is known.  Eir own
question seemed more pressing than trying to find out more about their
tour.  "What and when do we eat and drink?"

"Ah, yes," said Sel.  "Youse's rooms have devices that can produce
food and drink on request, and areas for eating.  The rooms' controls
should be able to explain to you equivalencies between things you
request and what is available.  There will also be occasions when
groups of people eat together."

"Thank you."

"You are most welcome, Trace.  I hope that you are comfortable and
have a pleasant night.  Do not hesitate to contact me--I do not
sleep."  With that, Sel gave a small bow from eir waist, turned and
walked away from them, back to the gap in the floor, and then out into
thin-air beyond it.

Jacob turned to em.  "I'm glad you're here.  I hope we'll get to know
each other, but even though we don't yet, really, this would all have
been much harder to go through if I were truly alone with them."

"Thank you, I agree.  It's nice to have at least one person around
that I'm pretty confident I'll understand what they're saying.  Even
Sel...."  Trace shook eir head.  "Do you know what an 'abshuman' or a
'clade' is?"

"I think 'clade' is some kind of group, in biology.  I did a bunch of
illustrations of different kinds of spikez for a professor at the
university.  'Clade' was the last word in the title of each."

"Huh.  Well, thank you.  And good night.  Which room do you want?"

"They're supposed to be the same, right?"  Jacob said.  "I guess
which ever one lets me in...."  E walked around the corner to their
right, heading for the closer of the unmarked doors.  It slid to the
side into the wall as E got close.  "So, this is me then.  Sleep
well."  E waved at Trace and stepped inside.  The door closed behind
em, leaving Trace alone in the hall.

Trace turned left corner and walked down the hall, almost thirty
meters before E reached the first undecorated door.  It slid open
silently as E reached it, and E stepped inside.  The floor and wall
colors matched the hallway outside.  The room was almost eight meters
wide, and about six between the door and the wall opposite, which
contained three windows that matched those that had been at each of
landings in the ramps they'd used--almost two meters square each.  It
was spartan, the unembellished furniture within designed with straight
lines and simple curves.

There was a partition a few meters to the left, obscuring eir view of
a corner of the room, and a wall just to eir right that had a charging
shelf and a number of coat pegs sticking out of it.  E let out a
single barking laugh; caught it before it could turn into a flow of
ironic cackling.  The juxtaposition of something so incredibly
familiar and mundane with the rest of the surroundings, knowing that
these details had almost certainly been added just for em, was
overwhelming.  E took the phone out of eir sporran, noted that it
turned on, was still keeping time, and unsurprisingly, couldn't
connect to anything.  Obligingly, E put it on the charging shelf.
Continuing the ritual, E dropped eir duffel, unclipped and hung eir
sword, then the belt and sporran, and finally the top of eir gi.  E
kicked of eir boots and left them under the pegs.

E picked up the duffel and carried it farther into the room, and set
it on a couch that was arranged with a few other chairs around a low
round table.  Like the ones on the small ship, what would have been
the back and arms of the couch rose only about ten centimeters above
the level of the cushions.

There was furniture all along the wall of windows.  Diagonally
opposite the door was a bed, larger than E was used to for a single--a
couple of meters wide and not quite three long.  In the opposite
corner, a taller table surrounded by six chairs with the same
very-narrow back E'd seen on the ship from Haran.  And in between was
a classic bar with four stools.

Turning around, E saw that the area blocked from view of the door
contained a bathroom.  There were a set of narrow closets or cabinets
sticking into the room from the wall opposite the partition, and
connecting the end of the partition to about the middle of the row of
cabinets was a wall of floor-to-ceiling glass panels, that appeared to
be able to telescope into a gap between cabinet segments.  Inside the
glass area were an incredibly-normal looking vanity, toilet, and
tub/shower.  There seemed to be no provision for a curtain or
enclosure around the shower.

Not knowing what else to do next, Trace stood in the middle of the
room and stripped.  E put eir gi pants across the end of the duffel
and left everything else in a pile on the floor.  _Tomorrow I'll ask
about laundry_.  E bent over, unzipped eir duffel, took out one of the
canteens, and took a drink.

E was torn between trying the shower or the bed.  Decided on the bed.

E didn't see any seems to distinguish linens from what might have been
the bed itself, but decided that figuring out how to make or clean it
wasn't eir problem at the moment.  The bed had one anemic-looking
pillow and single cover, and everything was a light cream color.  The
surface of the mattress, pillow, and the inside of the thin blanket
were all the same texture, which was simultaneously very smooth and
not at all slippery.  The outer surface of the blanket was lightly
textured, like the weave of eir thermals but at a tenth the scale.  E
slid under the cover, put eir head on the pillow, and was very
uncomfortable.

Trace didn't want to strike up a conversation with eir room, and had
been considering sleeping with the lights still on in order to avoid
it.  But E wanted both more blankets and more pillows.  So, E stifled
eir discomfort, and addressed the air "Schön, are you there?"

"You may make requests."

"Schön, I would like to have a couple more pillows and a thicker
blanket."

"Both of these can be provided, but your existing ones can also be
adjusted.  Are you implying that your pillow is currently not thick
enough or not firm enough?"

"Yes, exactly.  I'd like one at least twice as thick and firmer.  Do
you have one like that?"

"Yours is like that."  Before Trace could ask what that statement
meant, the pillow under eir began to swell, as if it were inhaling.
But it didn't expand like a balloon--there was clearly a solid texture
or substance within it, and somehow that became firmer at the same
time.  "Is that sufficient?" asked eir room's voice.

"That is much better, thank you.  Can you make it even a little more
firm?"

"It can be more firm.  Assuming you meant that as a request, firming
now."  And the pillow did become just a little bit stiffer.  "You also
asked for a thicker blanket.  Assuming you meant you wished for it to
retain more heat, adjusting now.  It will be a few minutes until your
temperature stabilizes.  Request additional adjustment at that time if
desired."

"Schön, I'd like you to wake me in ten hours if I'm not already."

"Yes."

"And Schön, please turn out the lights."  The room became dark, with
no other reply.

Trace rolled to face out the window eir bed was next to, and after
about ten minutes of watching the stars stream across from bottom to
top, E was asleep.

*****

It had taken Jacob a couple of hours to get settled and to sleep,
repeatedly getting in bed, not falling asleep, and then puttering
around eir suit.  E had eir clothing and things tucked away, had
repeatedly adjusted the bed, had bathed, had learned that when you ask
Schön for food, it comes out of a compartment in the wall next to the
dining table.  E'd also learned that you couldn't really make
conversation with Schön.

E'd slept for maybe five hours, then found emself awake and feeling
too anxious to get back to sleep.  That had been an hour before, but E
still hadn't felt ready to call Sel and admit the day was going to
start.  E was sitting in one of the chairs from the dining table that
E'd pulled back into the room, facing the windows, and idly bouncing a
ball against the window and floor.  Mas[[@]] had insisted that Jacob
take the ball with em, and now it seemed to be eir most comforting
possession.  Normally E could settle emself by drawing, but even that
seemed too overwhelming to em.

Sel had said "months," which had the virtue of not being "forever" or
"just a week but then the ship explodes."  But everything else E'd
said left Jacob uneasy.  E'a had the sense that they were more cargo
than guests.  E'a and Trace were along not because they'd won
something or the Chaiken expected to enjoy their company, but they
were somehow the best choice for show-and-tell.

Jacob got up, stepped to the table, and grabbed the tray that his
attempt at breakfast had come on.  Eir negotiations with Schön had
yielded a tofu scramble with vegetables, most of which E recognized,
and a slab of cake-thing made of oats.  If E had been feeling better,
E'd have finished it.  As it was, there was a bit of both to go into
the recycler slot in the wall, under the serving compartment.  E felt
a pang of guilt as E slid the tray in--at the waste of not having had
a way to take less, at not knowing what would become of the dishes.

E turned back to survey the room--eir room.  And decided to force
emself to sketch something.  E got a pad from eir small shoulder bag,
settled at the bar looking out, and decided to just try to capture the
stable part of the view--the toroids around the ship, and the myriad
branches connecting them to it.  The work went poorly at first, with
Jacob unable to focus and unhappy with every stroke, but eventually E
lost emself in it.

*****

Trace had woken refreshed, and was only disoriented a moment before
remembering where E was and how, and called for lights.  E got
breakfast and shower instructions from Schön, then put yesterday's
clothes and today's towels into a bin the extended from the wall near
the serving compartment.  E wondered how thick that wall really was.

E dressed in a fresh gi, putting away some of the clothes from eir
duffel in the process.  Almost ready, E put on eir belt, saber, and
sandals.  E left eir sporran and phone where they were--it seemed like
they wouldn't be much use.  And then there was nothing left to do but
contact Sel.

"Schön, I was told that when I was ready, I could talk to Sel by
asking you?"

"That is correct.  Assuming you meant that as a request, alerting
Selanthon now."

There was a moment's pause, and then Sel's voice filled the room.
"Good morning, I hope you had a restful night."

"Yes, it was fine.  And I've eaten.  What would you like us to do
now?"

"Jacob hasn't contacted me yet.  It may be some time until E does.  Is
there something you would like to help pass the time?"

Trace cocked eir head as E considered, eir tongue making a click-click
noise.  "I think I will exercise.  Would you come here so that we can
talk while I do?"

"Of course.  I will be there presently."

Trace waited until E was sure that Sel didn't have anything more to
say.  "Schön, when I'm talking to someone like that, how do I know
whether they can still hear me at the end?"

"If you wish to be the one who ends the conversation, simply say
something like 'Schön, disconnect us' when you are ready."

"Thank you," said Trace.  E stripped down to eir underwear, leaving
eir gi and sword across the low-backed couch.  Stepping into the clear
area between the table and chairs and the bar in front of the window,
E started a series of slow stretches.

A few minutes later, the door opened behind em and Sel came in.
Slightly startled, Trace asked "Can anyone open my door?"

"Normally, yes.  If you wish it to open only for you or at your
request, simply tell Schön.  I see you are behaving normally."

Trace was startled again by the phrasing, but decided to let it go.
"Yes.  I prefer to exercise as early in the day as plans allow."  E
shifted to doing push-ups.  "It is a little small in here to practice
with my saber.  Do you have something like a gym, or at least a larger
area I could use without getting in anyone's way?"

"When we join Jacob, we will be proceeding to the wardroom level,
which is a common space that you can visit any time, and which has
several open areas.  If you do not want to use it, there are a number
of other spaces we can consider, depending on your reasons."

"Sel, is it appropriate if I ask you what you are?"

"Of course, Trace.  You should think of me as a complicated machine.
As you saw last night, I don't actually have a solid surface.  What
you'll normally see is a cloud of small devices that I control, to
make a shape intended to make youse feel comfortable.  More
accurately, this is what I look like...."

As Sel said that, the surface of eir chest rippled and spread open.
Trace could see through em, and that eir back was opening the same
way.  In a second Sel stood in two parts, eir arms and shoulders
hovering above eir waist and legs.  In between, in what would have
been the middle or eir torso, a small machine hovered.  It was a
cylinder, five or six centimeters in diameter and over twenty
centimeters tall.  The bottom end widened into a rounded cube with
holes in its top.

Trace had been distracted by the sight and stopped eir push-ups,
sweating slightly now.  E sat up and looked closer for a minute.  "So
that cylinder is _you_, where your brain and memories are?"

"Yes, exactly."  Sel passed eir hands in front of eir torso, in an
approximation of a stage magician's reveal gesture, and eir surface
reassembled as they went.

"How old are you?" Trace asked.  E laid down to start sit-ups.

"That question has several possible answers."  Sel cocked eir head and
emitted a little click-click noise.  "My memory of interactions as a
specific individual starts yesterday, a little before I met youse.
But I have knowledge that extends back to when humans were on Earth.
And the, maybe you'd understand it as a 'mind configuration' that I
started from yesterday was created almost four hundred years ago, to
help with planting humans on Den."

"Wait," said Trace.  "You're only a day old?"

"That's accurate in the way that I think you mean it.  But instead of
comparing me to a human infant, think about me as someone highly
educated and skilled who just happens to be on their second day of
something new."

"Wow.  And did you say 'planting on Den'?  What is Den?"

"That is our name for the planet you live on.  Other simulacra based
on the same pattern as I am were part of establishing Haran with your
ancestors."

Trace let the conversation lapse for a moment, doubling eir sit-up
rate while E wasn't trying to talk.  When E finally had a burn in eir
rectus, E shook eir head to clear the sweat from eir eyes, and laid
back on the floor.

E looked at Sel.  "You said we could decorate our rooms.  Could I get
something like a pull-up bar and some weights?  And would it be OK if
I ran on the ramps or around the hallway on this level?"  E hopped up
and started into squats.

"You can go wherever the doors and pads will let you.  You should be
prevented from going anywhere that would be dangerous.  And yes, I'll
have a pull-up rig and weights delivered."

There was another pause, and then Sel continued "Jacob has contacted
me, and is ready to go down when we are, but not in a hurry."

Trace stood straight, then folded forward to put eir palms on the
rough floor.  "I'd like to shower again, and then we'll meet em?"

"Yes, that will be fine."  Pause.  "I've told em."

Trace was already crossing the threshold into the bathroom area.
"Schön, please turn on the shower again.  Cooler this time."

The water snapped on, and E stepped under the stream.  There was no
enclosure around the tub, just the one wall that the tub was against,
but when water splattered it seemed to disappear from the floor
without leaving it wet.  Trace took the bar of soap E'd packed off of
the high shelf next to the tub, ran it over eir skin.  Then grabbed
the bottle of workout rinse and squirted it through eir short hair.  E
ducked eir head under the stream, rolled it around until all the rinse
was out.  Finally E took two palm fulls of oil, slicked them through
eir hair, and worked it in.

"Schön, that's enough, please turn off the water."  E leaned over,
opened one of the cabinets in the wall, and took a towel off the stack
inside.  "Sel, can youse make soap and stuff like this?  I didn't pack
enough for months."  E patted down eir hair, toweled off.

"Yes, we should be able to.  May we take samples when we bring the
exercise equipment?  Will you want more of anything besides what is on
the shelf?"

"No, just those.  Thank you."  Trace walked to eir still half-full
duffel, pulled out a fresh set of underwear, continued across the
room, and dropped the towel and workout underwear into the bin.  The
clothes from earlier were gone.  E crossed back to the middle of the
room and the couch, finished dressing.  "OK, I'm ready.  Let's go
meet.... whoever."

Sel walked ahead or eir toward the door.  It opened and they both
walked out into the hall.  They headed back toward where they'd gotten
off of the lift pads, saw Jacob waiting for them at the intersection.

"It was me," Trace called out.  "I was ready, and then I wasn't."

"It's fine," said Jacob.  "Sel explained to me that you'd be a
moment."

Sel said "We're going down to the wardroom, the level just below.  Use
the lift pads, like last night, but don't hold hands this time.  If
you go down too far, remember to slide your foot back to go up again.
We're immediately above the aperture through the wardroom level, so
you won't need to move laterally."

With that, E walked into the floor gap, past the pads, and began
floating down.  They exchanged a glance--the same one they had before
boarding the little ship--and each stepped onto a pad.  Jacob got
eir'a pad moving first, and then Trace.  By the time Trace had sunk to
the level below, E'e saw that Jacob had over-shot and was floating
back up.  As eir'e pad stopped, Trace looked around.

The level was unpartitioned, a circle across the entire width of the
ship, almost a hundred meters.  The wall was a band of windows all the
way around.  There were three other apertures in the floor, a quarter
of the way around each.  There were a handful of clusters of furniture
and other objects scattered around.  Near where they were stepping off
the pads was a solid block extending up from the floor, like a
sideboard.  On the far side of it were a couple of low-backed couches,
a number of other chairs, and a couple of low tables.  Standing around
the tables were a number of figures:  three that looked like Sel, five
that appeared to be Chaiken, and three that could have been human,
except it didn't look like they'd come from the city.

One of the black figures turned back toward them.  Trace hoped it was
Sel.

Two of the possible humans stood close together, and were dressed
similarly.  The one on Trace's left looked solidly butch.  E was
wearing dark blue pants and a matching button-down shirt with
elbow-length sleeves.  The shirt color turned down and was tight
around eir neck, but instead of having points or space for a tie,
it closed in the front with some complicated folds.  There were loose
cloth bands attached, like epaulettes but on the front of eir
shoulders instead of the top.  There were two on each side, and E had
some metal pins or jewelry on them.  E had light black boots and a
black belt, with a matching black leather pouch on eir right hip, and
what looked like a thin leather rod, half a meter long, flopping
loosely from eir left.  E was generally pale, with eir close-cropped
hair a corn-silk blond.

The person on the right of the pair was as femme as eir companion was
butch.  Eir clothes were the same color, but instead of pants E wore a
full-length skirt.  Eir shirt was blousier with short sleeves, and the
cloth where eir collar fastened folded up in a flower.  It had the
same faux epaulettes above eir breasts, but with only a couple of
pins.  Eir boots and belt were black leather, in the same style as the
person E was standing with, but with nothing hung from eir belt.  E
was even lighter skinned, with freckles and bright red hair.  Eir hair
was a little longer than shoulder length, with the locks in the front
pulled up into a complicated bun held together by an ornate gold pin.

The third person who didn't look Chaiken stood apart from the other
two, at the diagonally-opposed corner of a long coffee table.  Eir
clothes were in different natural shades, from tan to taupe.  E had a
wrap-around shirt under a short jacket that wasn't cut to close in the
front.  The hem of eir shirt was hidden by the top of a wrap skirt
that fell just below eir knees, fastened at the top by a bronze clip.
E was also wearing sandals, but unlike Trace's, eir laces wound around
eir legs and were tied off mid-calf.  E had hair that was straight and
full, very dark brown, and trimmed so that none of it fell below the
line of eir heavy jaw.

Sel reached Trace and Jacob, still standing at the edge of the
aperture.  "Come along, let me introduce you to the other humans we've
assembled so far."  They followed as Sel turned back and led them
around the end of the sideboard, toward the person standing on eir
own.  A figure indistinguishable from Sel stood just behind em.
"Please meet Japhet Potiki," Sel motioned toward em.  "And Japhet,
this is Trace and Jacob."  Sel gestured to each of them in turn.

"I am pleased to meet you," said Japhet, though there was caution in
eir voice and around eir eyes.  E gave a small bow from the waist.

Trace and Jacob both tried to repeat the bow.  Then Jacob extended a
hand to shake "And I am very happy to meet you, too.  You're not from
Haran, are you?  I grew up believing those of us in the city were the
only humans remaining after the passing of Earth."

"As did we."  E took Jacob's hand.  "It seems this journey will be an
unending series of surprises."  Japhet said this ruefully, almost
resentfully, with a glance toward the pair of humans at the other end
of the table.  "Be careful."

Trace focused more directly on eir eyes, started opening eir'a mouth
to ask a question, when Sel said "And over here..." and started moving
along the table to the other end.  Trace closed eir'a mouth, nodded to
Japhet, and followed Sel.

"...are Hunt Robinette and eir spouse, Regina."  Regina stood slightly
behind Hunt, with the third Sel-like form standing behind them both.
Regina's glance flickered between Trace, in the lead, and Jacob.  Hunt
made no motion and didn't say anything.

Trace reached out eir hand, saying "Hello Hunt, I'm pleased to meet
you."

"Unbelievable!" Hunt roared.  "Are there no other civilized humans in
the world?"  "How dare you speak to me without being addressed?  And
without even kneeling?"  E turned toward Jacob, "Is it not your place
to keep _her_ under control?"

Jacob sputtered, eyes wide.  Trace stiffened, eir arm dropping.  E
tried to set aside shock and anger, striving to keep eir voice level
as E said "Is it your custom that we kneel to each other first, then?"

"I would never kneel to the likes of you," Hunt yelled, slate eyes
bulging.  "Get down on your knees!"  With that, E moved to slap em'a
back-handed.  Trace ducked under it easily and, noticing the crop
dangling from eir hip, E'a grabbed the loose end of it and jerked it
free of eir belt.

Trace began to straighten, then saw Hunt's right hand at the pocket on
eir hip, pulling a gun free.  E'a felt the first hint of fear in the
exchange as the barrel cleared the pocket and started to turn toward
em'a.  E'a was holding the crop by the thin flexible end, but swung it
anyway.  E'a caught the inside of eir wrist with the weighted end of
the crop, hard, and E dropped the gun.  Trace snatched the falling gun
out of the air with eir'a left hand, and leapt over the corner of the
low couch next to them, eir'a arm passing straight through Sel.

As Jacob gaped and turned to watch em'a, E'a scrambled behind the
sideboard they'd come past.  It was large, a meter wide and almost
three long, and E'a had noticed it had serving compartments on both
sides.  Now E'a crouched down on the far side of it from Hunt and the
others, pleased to find it had recycler slots, too.  Hoping they could
handle things besides what the server produced, E'a stuffed in the
gun, following it with the riding crop.  After they'd both clunked in,
E'a opened the slot again and saw no sign of either.  E'a then looked
back toward the others.

Hunt was starting to stalk toward em'a, walking straight over the
table and couch.  Regina hadn't moved except to put eir'e hands over
eir'e mouth.  Sel had moved close to Jacob, and was posed as if in
close conversation.  Sel's doppelganger had moved from behind Hunt and
Regina and was hovering in front of em, backing toward Trace as E
continued.

There was a loud baritone voice that Trace figured out must be coming
from Hunt's "liaison" just as E'a started to make out the words
".... told you that you'll have to accommodate people with other
cultures while you are with us.  All humans are equal here, and you
may _not_ kill another."

Hunt slashed eir left arm through the glittering black
prosopopoeia[[#]] in front of him, which didn't stop it from
continuing to hang directly before em.  E wasn't moving quickly,
but was still coming toward Trace.  E'a retreated again, backing
around the gap in the floor, and then stepping onto a lift pad while
facing em.

"Hunt.  You will not go home except by our leave.  And all of your
maintenance while you are with us is at our pleasure.  Do not do
something that will result in our decreasing our hospitality."

Hunt stopped as E reached the sideboard, slammed both fists down on
the top of it.  E seemed to try to control emself for a moment, the
lashed out again.  Pointing toward Trace, through eir liaison again, E
bellowed "You cowardly bitch!  Give me back my gun!"  And E kicked the
sideboard.

The baritone voice again, "_She_ put your gun in the recycler.  It
cannot be returned.  Which was a perfectly fine thing to do--we would
not have allowed you to retain it after this in any event.  You will
not take retribution against _her_ and will accept the fact that _she_
considers _herself_ your equal."

E grunted, turned on eir heel, and all but marched back to where
Regina still stood among the handful of Chaiken--who had also done
nothing during the altercation.

Trace continued to stand on the motionless lift pad.  E felt like E
was about to start shaking, but wouldn't let emself.  Sel had flown
over from the group, and as E'a arrived, Trace hissed "What the shit
was that?  Did E say that Hunt had already killed someone?  And youse
did nothing and were expecting us all to just make nice?  What is
wrong with you people?"  Eir voice rose as E spoke, eir hands balled
into fists at eir sides.

Sel said, "Yes, another human came with Japhet, Lol Kanuta.  Just as
Jacob came with you.  They arrived the day before yesterday, and were
introduced to the Robinettes yesterday.  Lol inadvertently offended
Hunt, much as you did, but the outcome was less fortunate.  Krisrenmo,
my counterpart, reprimanded Hunt, and we expected your introduction
would go better.  What can we do for you now?  The last pair will be
arriving this evening, and there will be another introduction
tomorrow."

"Oh good," Trace sneered, "you're going to give em more people to
assault?  No warning for them either?"  E stepped forward, loomed over
Sel, and then crumbled, slumping--E couldn't menace a faceless
shimmering surface.

_[Author note to self: this is a limp pile of crud.  Trace's reaction
is much stronger, just don't know how it would be expressed.]_

Jacob had come over from the conversation area, followed by Japhet and
eir liaison.

Sel backed up a step, bowed slightly.  "Trace, come sit with us over
here."  Sel waved eir arm away from where they'd been.  "Hunt won't
come over here--not after that."  Sel kept eir arm raised in
invitation, and started backing in the direction eir indicated.
"Please come too, Jacob."

Trace still hadn't moved.  Jacob paused at the edge of the gap, next
to the pad where E was still standing.  Japhet's prosopopoeia was now
preceding em'a after Sel, but E'a continued without stopping, glances
back alternately going to Trace and Jacob and then to the Robinettes
and bystanding Chaiken.

Jacob held out eir hand, holding it a few inches from Trace's arm.
"Here.  Do you want to go sit with them?  Or back to our rooms?  We
could find another part of the ship?  Or should I leave you alone?"

"Would you really be OK sitting down here?"

"Away from them?  Yes, with you."

"OK.  OK, then."  And E stepped back of the pad, next to Jacob, turned
eir back on Hunt, and rested eir forearm into eir'a hand.
