---
---


## Chapter 8

Trace's arm settled in eir hand as e'a stepped from the pad onto the
floor next to em.  Jacob was surprised to find E was actually
supporting some of eir'a weight.  E'd meant taking eir'a arm as a
gesture of support and solidarity, but E'a was moving as if injured or
exhausted.  As they followed Sel and the rest toward a low cluster of
chairs, Jacob was also surprised at how touched E felt that Trace was
willing to depend on em&mdash;even just this little bit.

It was a grouping of stools circling a simple round table, with a
single central leg attaching it to the floor.  The arrangement
reminded em of a diner.  There were eight chairs, and the others
settled around the arc closest to where they'd been, so their backs
were toward Hunt, Regina, and the Chaiken.  Jacob led Trace to the far
side.  E sat down facing the other group, with an empty stool between
emself and Sel on eir right.  Jacob sat down immediately eir left.

There was silence for a while.  Jacob thought over what had happened,
whether something different had been expected of them, why any of it
had been allowed.

E also studied who they were with.  It was a marvel that even though
Sel and Japhet's liaison seemed to be identical, E could easily
distinguish them by their carriage and how they related to the others.
Sel had faced toward em and Trace as they'd walked over, and was now
sitting on the front edge of eir'a stool, leaning in toward the group,
miming grasping the table edge with one hand.  Japhet was sitting next
to Sel with eir'e liason on the other side.  E'i was straight-backed
with hands below the table, but had the barest turn to how E'i sat,
angled almost-imperceptibly away from the center of the table toward
Japhet.

Japhet sat with back hunched, eir arms crossed in front of eir chest.
E glanced up occasionally, avoiding eye contact with Trace and Jacob,
but mostly stared unfocused at the table.

Trace hadn't moved since E'd sat down next to Jacob.  E was leaning
over the table, propped up with both eir forearms on it.  E slowly
leaned farther forward, trying to rest eir head in eir left hand.  But
found emself turning eir head up, awkwardly, so as not to lose sight
of Hunt.  E was stuck there, unable to relax a step further and drop
the focus on eir attacker, unwilling to admit that the pose was
neither comfortable or comforting and move.

As Trace had settled, Japhet lifted eir gaze up and contemplated for
some time.  E turned to the shining figure next to em.  "Why, Len?
Why would you allow this to happen to someone again?  I won't believe
that you couldn't have stopped Hunt if you wanted to.  And _why_...
Why, if you were putting a murderer among us, didn't you start
introductions with the person who could _defend emself!_"

Japhet lashed out, as if to pound eir fists on the dark presence's
chest.  But they simply passed through, flailing.  Overcome and
over-balanced, E bobbed forward, eir head dipping into Len's front
before E recovered.  Sitting up, Japhet had started to cry&mdash;shiny
black specks trapped in eir tears.  "Bah!" and E kicked out, snapping
eir skirt tight and sending the stool Len was on bouncing across the
floor.

E subsided, stilling emself, the outburst gone except for eir heavy,
racking breaths.  Len had remained in place, eir'a legs and butt
swirling in the eddies from Japhet's kick.  In a moment E'a'd reformed
in a kneeling position next to Japhet, facing em.  "I did not want Fol
to be killed, or Trace attacked."  Len said, in a voice that could
have belonged to a high-voiced tween.  "But we are bringing youse in
order to know youse, and cannot truly see you or the others unless
you're free to act.  Would you have us enact violence or revenge?  Or
shall we 'understand the warp we're part of, and work our desires with
the weft'?"

Japhet opened eir mouth to object, but pulled back, chastened.  "I do
not believe that Hunt is as innocent as the storm."

"But perhaps E can be comprehended and managed, as the flood?"

"As the cancerous sheep," Japhet said, and stood.  "I want a drink."
And with that he started toward a smaller serving table, a few meters
from them toward the ship's curved outer wall.

They watched in silence as E walked over, even Sel's and Len's heads
turning.  Japhet stood next to the solid block for several moments,
then finally reached into the top to withdraw a glass, sipped, and
walked back.  E sat back down at his place with them, letting the
glass thud onto the table.  It was a simple tumbler, with almost three
fingers of a clear liquid.

"What did you get?" asked Jacob.

"I asked for _komejōchū_, uh... distilled rice."  E paused and took
another sip, closing eir eyes.  "And this could be.  It's not bad."  E
closed eir eyes again, holding the glass below eir nose.

"Would youse like anything?" asked Sel.

After a beat, Trace replied "Coffee?  Just plain hot coffee?"

"Certainly.  Jacob?"

"May I have tea?  Hot, green tea."  Eir look of hope grew with each
word.

"Yes," said Sel, "it will be just a moment."  Sel made no move from
the table or to speak further.

"Do you not drink alcohol?" asked Japhet.

"I think not around em," Trace said, jerking eir head back toward Hunt
and the other group.  "I think, perhaps, not until I return home."

"I feel less optimistic about that.  Since yesterday."  E took a gulp,
turned to face Len again.  "Since E murdered Fol.  Since you and yours
showed no concern for eir'a life, and treated eir'a body like
garbage."

Len turned from the table to Japhet.  Jacob realized with a start that
at some point Len had returned to a seated pose, eir surface extending
and expanding to give the impression of a shiny black stool below em.

"Mortality is a central aspect of humanity.  We did not need to see em
die to know this, but we will not make you abshuman to interfere with
an inevitability of your lives.  The Chaiken are long-lived, but all
mortal, and when one of them dies, E is rendered just the same."

"_Rendered_.  That's what you said yesterday."  Japhet turned back to
face Jacob and Trace, eyes wide, drink sloshing and forgotten in eir
now-trembling hand.  "They _unmade_ em, right where E'd fallen, in
front of me and everyone.  Eir body just fell apart into little bits
of meat and offal.  Eir blood spread out around all of us.  And then
the floor _ate_ em!"  Japhet's eyes squeezed shut.  "The floor opened
into thousands of pinhead-mouths and chewed em down.  Eir blood was
swallowed up in seconds.  I could feel them moving under my feet. Then
the pile they'd made eir just sank into floor until em was all gone.
Like E'd never been there."

Japhet turned back to Len, slamming his eir fist on the table on each
point:  "No mourning.  No honor.  No _care_."

With that, Japhet fell into silence again.  E noticed the remaining
half of eir drink in eir other hand and downed it.

Everyone at the table was silent.  Trace gazed at Japhet with concern
and pity, the corners of eir mouth and eyes twitching in response to
whatever series of thoughts eir was going through.

Jacob shifted eir arm on the table, to reach for Trace's hand, but
stopped emself short.  E tried to imagine being in the scene Japhet
described, to remember every detail of the place they'd all been
standing just a few minutes ago.  Playing receiving-line before Hunt
had determined to assault Trace.  E wondered if there had been some
sign left of yesterday's tragedy.  Maybe a blood drop dried on the
couch, or a vesicle on the floor broken open from over-use.  But E
couldn't remember anything even a tiny bit out of place.  Perhaps it
really had been erased as thoroughly as Japhet said.

E looked out, consciously surveying the vast room around them.  They
hadn't encountered a single spill or stain, no dusty corners, since
they stepped into the small Chaiken ship yesterday.  A chill passed
through em, as eir view of the environment the Chaiken had made
shifted.  What had been clean and spare, well-maintained and shiny now
felt sterile, without soul or history.  E wondered at the designs and
murals E'd seen on the hallway walls near their rooms.  Were they
really by each room's occupant?  Were they merely projections of the
designs, or were they originals that each Chaiken had created in
place?  Could they be moved as people came and went, or would the
Chaiken unmake those as well in moments of change?

As Jacob's attention returned to the table, Sel shifted, seeming to
look back over eir shoulder.  The humans all looked in the same
direction, but saw only a tray of drinks emerging from the top of the
serving table Japhet had used.  There was a white oblate shape taking
up most of the middle of the tray, with what could have been a few
glasses around it.  As they watched, the tray slid smoothly toward
them, edging off the table.  A single cylindrical leg with a roller at
its end extended out from under, reaching the floor just as the tray
was half-way off the table.  The tray proceeded to travel across the
floor to them, balanced on its single spindly leg.

Their silence continued as the tray arrived at their table, reaching
the edge in the gap between Sel and Len.  It continued on top of their
table, it's lifting off the floor when it bumped the edge, and then
steadily angling up and retracting until it disappeared under the
tray.  The tray continued until it was in the center of their table
where it slowed to a stop.

The oblate in the center was a tea pot, Jacob guessed.  Though there
was no sign of a lid or other opening in the top, it did have a handle
and a narrow cylinder that could have been a spout rose straight up
from its widest point.  Between the pot and Jacob was a small white
cup, empty.  And between it and Trace was a large black mug with a
handle, full of what looked and smelled like coffee.  Steam was
visible above both the coffee and the pot's spout.  Between the pot
and Japhet was a glass tumbler of clear liquid, identical to eir
first.

"Your drinks," said Sel.

Jacob looked back and forth between Sel and the tray, in a double-take
too slow to be comedic.  E couldn't tell if Sel was being
intentionally obtuse about the weight of the moment in an effort to
defuse it, or if E'a was simply unable to match eir affect to the tone
around em.

Trace was first to move toward the drinks.  E took eir mug, wrapping
it in eir other hand as E raised it under eir nose and made a show of
smelling before E took a sip.  Eir expression had settled, and E now
seemed contemplative, eir gaze unfocused.  Jacob took the pot's
handle, lifting it free and pouring from it into the empty cup, only
sloshing onto the tray a couple of times.  E'a lifted the cup and
sipped.

"Jacob, do you want sugar?" asked Sel.

E wondered for a moment where it would come from, but said "No, thank
you."

As Jacob sipped, he watched Trace.  E tried to focus on the tea,
hoping to settle emself and find some way back into the conversation
that wouldn't make things worse for Japhet.  Before E'd found
something to say, Trace's gaze hardened, and E'a turned to face Sel.
E'a slowly and conspicuously held eir'a coffee in the air between
them, rotating eir'a right arm until the mug was well away from the
table over the floor.

E'a smoothly rotated eir'a wrist, pouring about a quarter of eir'a
coffee onto the floor.  Before E'a had finished, all the little bumps
of the textured surface under the spill started opening and closing,
and sucked in the liquid.  In less than a second after E'a stopped
pouring, all the coffee was gone and the floor closed and still again.

Trace gave a pointed "Hmmmm" and turned back square with the table,
taking another sip of coffee as she transferred the mug to eir left
hand.  E came to rest with both of eir forearms on the table, letting
go of the mug.  Jacob flinched back as Trace moved suddenly, then
relaxed back onto eir'a stool as E'a understood what had happened.
Eir right hand had shot out, reaching into Sel's chest, and had come
back wrapped around a cylindrical object, looking something like an
over-thick flashlight, a little over twice Trace's hand in length.  E
set, actually held, it down on the table, on its thicker, bottom end.

"Good to see you again Sel," Trace said.  "I know we can't speak
looking eye-to-eye, but I wanted to get as close as possible."

"Given the circumstances, I understand."  Jacob heard Sel's voice
coming from the device in Trace's hand, and realized that this must be
a central part of eir being.  "But understanding isn't permission,"
Sel continued.  "You may not intend me actual harm, but certainly this
is assault as well?"

"This is ongoing self-defense," Trace said with a tiny twist of eir
mouth.  "I assume youse know a great deal about us, from yourse
Selection process.  That youse know a great deal about the others
including Hunt.  And that none of youse is stupid.  Would you suggest
I conclude something other than that you considered eir attacks
possible and are complicit?"

"I believe that our responsibility extends to bringing youse safely
into the same room and alerting you to the fact that some of the
individuals around are also human.  Surely you're aware of what youse
are capable of?"

"I was unaware anyone still lived who was such a barbarian.  Hunt
seems like a character from a pre-Relief video, and I don't understand
most of them at all.  Where did Japhet and them," E jerked eir head
toward the group across the floor, "come from?"

"Several different communities were Seeded on Gan at the same time as
your city, each with a different selection of cultural components.  We
have selected two people from each to travel with us.  Youse are free
to interact with each other as much or as little as you like, though
we believe that youse will choose to accompany us on several outings
from the ship to experience different abshuman societies.  We hope to
learn from observing youse through this which of youse, if any, are
actually human, and whether yourse societies are stable and unlikely
to imperil yourse surroundings."

Jacob felt a wave of confusion and a little fear.  Sel had been so
much clearer than the Chaiken up to now, but E felt like there were
meanings and implications of this exchange floating below a surface E
couldn't see through.  E noticed Trace's eyes squeeze shut, then E'a
opened them and started again.

"I don't follow.  Why would you or the Chaiken have doubts of our
humanity?  I understand that the Chaiken aren't human, but I thought
they had been or were made from humans or made themselves or
something?  And didn't you say that the Chaiken _were_ the Saviors and
brought us here from Earth?  Do youse think there was a clerical error
hundreds of years ago?  Someone wrote down our return address wrong
and we're from somewhere else?  What do you even _mean_ when you say
'human'&mdash;what definition do you have that we might not meet?"

"Your understanding of the Chaiken is essentially valid, but there are
a number of inaccuracies in what youse've been taught of the end of
the history of humans on Earth and of yourse own here.  It is true
that yourse city of Haran, and Japhet's of Ahn'tal, and the others'
were all seeded by the Chaiken at about the same time, 384 years ago.
It is not true that yourse ancestors had just been transported from
Earth then, that it was shortly after the end of most life on Earth,
or that youse have a continuous biological connection with humanity."

"I don't think I understand what any of those not-true's mean."
Trace's brow wrinkled momentarily, then cleared.  "Please go on."

"Thirty-eight hundred years passed between the Chaiken's ancestors
fleeing Earth and when yourse communities were established.  We felt
youse were more likely to be interested in human cultures, and to heed
lessons of their failure, if you believed you had a direct and
immediate connection.

"During the intervening period, there has been relatively little
combat between the claves issued from humanity, in part due to a set
of agreements on acceptable actions by members.  One of these
agreements is a ban on free populations of unaltered humans.  Youse
exist due to a temporary waiver of the prohibition, obtained by the
Chaiken."

E paused.  The sinking feeling Jacob had been having as Sel spoke
crystallized into fear with eir last few words, and E'a interjected
"What do you mean 'temporary?'"

Sel continued, "The waiver was obtained for 431 years, and can be
extended.  The Chaiken's goal is that a permanent exception can be
obtained for those from one or more of the cities and their progeny.
Our journey together is a step intended to secure an extension."
