---
---


## Chapter 8

Trace's arm settled in eir hand as e'a stepped from the pad onto the
floor next to em.  Jacob was surprised to find E was actually
supporting some of eir'a weight.  E'd meant taking eir'a arm as a
gesture of support and solidarity, but E'a was moving as if E'd been
injured or exhausted.  As they followed Sel and the rest toward a low
cluster of chairs, Jacob was also surprised at how touched E felt that
Trace was willing to depend on em--even just this little bit.

The others were on stools circling a simple round table, with a single
central leg attaching it to the floor.  The arrangement reminded em of
a diner.  There were eight chairs, and the others had sat around the
arc closest to where they'd been, so their backs were toward the
Robinettes and Chaiken.  Jacob led them to the far side.  Trace sat
down facing the other group, with an empty stool between emself and
Sel on eir right.  Jacob stayed on eir left and sat down immediately
next to em.

There was silence for a while.  Jacob thought over what had happened,
whether something different had been expected of them, why any of it
had been allowed.

E also studied who E was with.  It was a marvel that even though Sel
and Japhet's liaison seemed to be identical, E could easily
distinguish them by their carriage and how they related to the others.
Sel had faced toward em and Trace as they'd walked over, and was now
sitting on the front edge of eir'a stool, leaning in toward the group,
and grasping the table edge with one hand.  Japhet was sitting next to
Sel with eir'e liason on the other side.  Eir'i was straight-backed
with hands below the table, but had the barest turn to how E'i sat so
E'i was angled almost-imperceptibly away from the center of the table
toward Japhet.

Japhet sat with back was hunched, eir arms crossed in front of eir
chest.  E glanced up occasionally, avoiding eye contact with Trace and
Jacob, but mostly stared unfocused at the table.

Trace hadn't moved since E'd sat down next to Jacob.  E was leaning
over the table, propped up with both eir forearms on it.  



Lenohjen
