---
---


## Chapter 1

"When do you think the Saviors will come back?  Why haven't they yet?"

Trace had been lost in thought, sitting on the back of the stone bench
and looking out over the Blue beyond the amphitheater's wall.  E
turned back toward the stage and aisle, where Hal was now standing
quietly.  Waiting, big eyed, for Trace to provide the answer.

Trace smiled, "Did you just get finished, or have you been waiting to
spring that on me for a while?"

Eir nibling's nose wrinkled, missing the jest behind the accusation.
"We just finished notes and got out.  But.  Really, do you think
they'll come back."

"They _said_ they'd come back," Trace said.  "But nobody wrote down if
they said when."  Trace waved toward the stage.  "I've seen almost as
many rehearsals of Ches' class' part of the pageant as yours.  And
you've been waiting with me for most of it.  What do you think?  Do
you believe the Saviors' part?  What would they say if you asked
them right now?"

Hal turned away to focus on the action on the stage, as if it might
have been rewritten since yesterday, and there'd be a soliloquy
starting at just that moment.  E was going to be disappointed,
though.  They were running the scene for the Relief.  The humans were
being slowly chased across the stage, the pursuers costumed as
metaphors and personifications, with all the complexity and lack of
subtlety a group of early teens could muster.

As they watched, the kids playing humans we pushed past the middle of
the stage, pursued by this year's Famine and Weather, Goo and Plague,
War and Machine.  Another moment, and a few more very dramatic deaths
later, and the last few humans were backed up against a wall set up at
the edge of the stage.  Then the Saviors arrived.

Trace liked the pageants best when the older kids got to stage the
story of the Saviors--the special effects were always better.  This
year, they'd arranged for a section of metal catwalk to swing down
from the scaffolds standing over the stage, carrying three students
playing the Saviors, silver costumes sparkling in the spotlights.
"You shall have relief" intoned the Saviors in unison.

And that wasn't the answer Hal was looking for.  E turned back to
Trace.  "I don't know what they'd say.  I don't even know why they
helped us."

Trace put eir hand on eirs'a upper arm, and slid down to the bench's
seat.  E straightened the bottom of eir gi, and patted the bench next
to em.  Hal sat.  E stretched eir arm the rest of the way around
eirs'a shoulders and hugged.  "I don't think it matters why they
helped.  I think it is important to think about all the reasons they
might have, and whether we would do the same.  Whether we'd do the
same even if nobody had helped us before.

"I hope they come back.  I want to know if anyone ever got the
costumes right."  Hal chuckled.  "And I want you to find out why they
didn't before.

*****


gi

