---
---


## Chapter 1

"When do you think the Saviors will come back?  Why haven't they yet?"

Trace had been lost in thought, sitting on the back of the stone bench
and watching the sunlight begin to fade evening out over the Blue
beyond the amphitheater's wall.  E turned back toward the stage and
aisle, where Hal was now standing quietly.  Waiting, big eyed, for
Trace to provide the answer.

Trace smiled, "Did you just get finished, or have you been waiting to
spring that on me for a while?"

Eir nibling's[[!]] nose wrinkled, missing the jest behind the accusation.
"We just finished notes and got out.  But, really, do you think
they'll come back."

"They _said_ they'd come back," Trace said.  "But nobody wrote down if
they said when."  Trace waved toward the stage.  "I've seen almost as
many rehearsals of Ches' class' part of the pageant as yours.  And
you've been waiting with me for most of it.  What do you think?  Do
you believe the Saviors' part?  What would they say if you asked
them right now?"

Hal turned away to focus on the action on the stage, as if it might
have been rewritten since yesterday, and there'd be a soliloquy
starting at just that moment.  E was going to be disappointed,
though.  They were running the scene for the Relief.  The humans were
being slowly chased across the stage, the pursuers costumed as
metaphors and personifications, with all the complexity and lack of
subtlety a group of early teens could muster.

As they watched, the kids playing humans were pushed past the middle of
the stage, pursued by this year's Famine and Weather, Goo and Plague,
War and Machine.  Another moment, and a few more very dramatic deaths
later, and the last few humans were backed up against a wall set up at
the edge of the stage.  Then the Saviors arrived.

Trace liked the pageants best when the older kids got to stage the
story of the Saviors--the special effects were always better.  This
year, they'd arranged for a section of metal catwalk to swing down
from the scaffolds standing over the stage, carrying three students
playing the Saviors, silver costumes sparkling in the spotlights.
"You shall have relief" intoned the Saviors in unison.

And that wasn't the answer Hal was looking for.  E turned back to
Trace.  "I don't know what they'd say.  I don't even know why they
helped us."

Trace put eir hand on eirs'a upper arm, and slid down to the bench's
seat.  E straightened the back of eir gi, and patted the bench next
to em.  Hal sat.  E stretched eir arm the rest of the way around
eirs'a shoulders and hugged.  "I don't think it matters why they
helped.  I think it is important to think about all the reasons they
might have, and whether we would do the same.  Whether we'd do the
same even if nobody had helped us before.

"I hope they come back.  I want to know if anyone ever got the
costumes right."  Hal chuckled.  "And I want you to find out why they
didn't earlier.

*****

They watched the rest of the rehearsal quietly leaning into each
other.  The scene went on, with two more catwalks lowered, so the
Saviors and humans could be winched back out of sight, over the
still-fighting metaphors.  With the humans gone it was the end of the
Relief.  The characters left fell on each other, the action moving to
the front of the stage.  This allowed the "dead" humans to spring up
and do a set change behind them.  Trace could imagine that, in a few
years, whichever of the students arranged this staging could be good
enough to produce things E'd work on.

Once the last of the metaphors had "fallen" from the front of the
stage down to the aisle in front, the lights came up.  The site of the
Planting was revealed.  Center stage was occupied by a tent and a
cut-out of a green tree.  The back of the stage was lined with flats
painted with blue forests and hillsides.  The catwalks swooped back in
with their passengers, people got off, and then the Saviors were
hauled into the rafters yet again--after saying that they would
return.

Finally, scattered applause from the director, bowing, and everyone
gathered at the edge of the stage to go over what they could improve
next time.

Trace couldn't hear any of the conversation from the stage, and Hal
was starting to squirm.  E stood, and then went into a handstand on
the bench where E'd just been.

"I bet I can do this for longer," Hal said, as she stretched her feet
onto the top of the bench in front of them and then stiffened up into
a plank.

They were both still there, each waiting for the other to quit, when
Ches walked up about 15 minutes later.  "Let's go," E said, "I'd like
to get home while there's still dinner."

Hal grinned over at Trace, who grinned back and folded out of eir
handstand.  Hal gave a bubbling laugh, jumped down, and started to run
out of the row and up the aisle out.  Trace picked up eir sword,
clipped it on er belt, and followed Chas between the benches in Hal's
wake.

It only took a couple of minutes for them to walk up the rest of the
slope out of the amphitheater, with Hal alternating between running
ahead of them and cartwheeling down the rows waiting for them to catch
up.  As they reached the flat expanse of the plaza, Trace turned
back.  E always turned back.  It was almost impossible to resist the
site of the amphitheater, sunken into the plain on the north side of
the river.  On the plain it was surrounded solely by the Blue.  Sponge
and spikez along the flat ground, giving way to brush-spindles and
canopies where the hills started to slope up, just beyond the seamless
stone cliff of the amphitheater's back wall.

From this view, you could imagine people hadn't been here for almost
400 years.

"You're not walking us home if you're not actually walking," Hal
called back.

"I'm coming."  Trace turned around again, and the view was entirely
different.  The flat, polished stone of the plaza filled the area
between em and the river bank.  Directly across from em, the wide
stone bridge arched over the river into the city.  To eir left,
downstream, the giant statue of the walker stood astride the river,
forever looking down out of the foothills and into the untrod plains.

E started jogging after the kids toward the bridge, and that's when
everyone heard the piercing whistle from the sky above them.

*****

The day had been hot, but the sun was finally within a couple of hours
of setting as Jacob reached the Border.  E'd walked the last 5 minutes
along a path through a grove of oak, stone fruit, coffee, and
vegetables.  E hadn't run into anyone tending the crops on eir walk.
And even though the fruit had been picked weeks ago, the canopy was
still thick with leaves, so the light was dappled and E couldn't see
the sky or horizon until E emerged from under them.

On reaching the Border, E stepped the few centimeters up onto the wide
ribbon of stone that stretched into the distance on either side of
em.  E found it almost impossible to stand on the Border without
taking a moment think about the sheer enormity of it:  an almost
perfect circle completely enclosing the city, almost two meters thick
and at least ten stories down into the soil at those places where it
didn't simply sit on the bedrock.  And seamless.  How much more of a
feat that one simple detail made it.

E'd drawn the Border many times, from inside and out, looking down and
at ground level.  Sometimes emphasizing the play between its geometry
and the natural slope in and around the city.  Sometimes focusing on
the contrast between all the different greens of the plants in the
city and the dark blues of the flora that filled the rest of the
world.

But today's trip wasn't about looking at the Border.

Jacob had come to a spot almost at the south extent of the city, where
the Border expanded to connect with the bridge over the river.  E was
a couple kilometers from the bridge and statue of the walker.  That
view was the point for today: gold-toned light, evenly illuminating
the back of the almost 60-meter statue and giving the normally dark
stone a subtle sheen.  Even better, Primary was nearly full, more than
half over the horizon and filling the sky at the mouth of the river's
shallow valley with bands of color.  E felt a moment of
imagination-vertigo, nearly believing the walker had just paused for a
second in eir'a trek along the river to the base of another world.

Satisfied, E sat cross-legged on the warm stone, pulled eir drawing
board and pastels out of eir shoulder bag, and set to work.

An hour passed.  Maybe more.  Eir pastel wasn't done by the time Jacob
finally admitted that E'd lost the light, but it was far enough along
E could finish it at home.  But E wasn't ready to stop, either.  E
pulled out a pencil to do a quick sketch of the walker's pose, how
eir'a walking stick was planted so it was perfectly vertical, from in
front of eir'a right foot up to where eir'a arm was over-extended from
eir'a body to grasp its handle.

But E'd only gotten a few strokes down before a shrieking whistle made
em look farther up and around.  It took a second, but then E saw it:
a silver speck, flaring as it caught the setting sun, and diving
straight toward the amphitheater on the far side of the river.

Jacob tossed eir things back in eir bag, and started to run down the
Border, following its curve toward the bridge and the spot where E'd
lost sight of the shiny spec where it disappeared into the
amphitheater.

