---
---


## Chapter 2

Trace strained to look up, but couldn't see where the whining scream
above them was coming from.  E took a quick glance around--Hal and
Ches were both standing still and staring up.  E looked back up.  The
sound was actually getting louder, but dropping in pitch and sliding
toward more of a roar.  After maybe fifteen of the longest seconds
ever, E caught a glint of something small, almost straight above them,
falling fast.

It was down to about 300 meters and clearly _slowing_ as it fell.  E
realized it must not be falling at all, which gave em a simultaneous
chill and thrill of anticipation.  After another moment it was down
into the amphitheater, behind the wall that separated the plaza from
the slope of seating.  E turned and ran over to Hal and Ches, still
standing and looking through em back to where it had dropped out of
sight.  The roar finally dies out as E picked up Hal, grabbed Ches'
hand, and started back toward the arch where they'd come out just a
minute before.

They were through the arch and a third of the way down the aisle
toward the stage before it occurred to Trace that maybe they were
headed in the wrong direction.  A handful of people were running past
them going out, but most people seemed to have made the same choice.
That there was more to be curious about than to fear, that actually
seeing what it was mattered.  E still couldn't see it, but from the
way the crowd ahead of er was moving, it wasn't on the stage
itself.  It must be in the space between the slightly-raised stage and
the first row--where the orchestra pit was in the big opera house in
the city.

There were six rows left between them and the front of the
amphitheater when they had to stop because everyone in front of them
had.  The apron in front of the stage had filled with people, and the
crush was backed up into the aisles.  The slope of the seating was
steep enough that Trace could see that there was a circular gap in the
crowd, but not whatever was in it.  _What had landed in it_, the back
of er mind whispered.

Ches jumped up a couple of times, trying to see.  Then, with eir hand
still in eris'a, started to hurry down the row next to them, toward
the center of the amphitheater.  Trace followed, still holding Hal up
in eir left arm.  When they got to the middle of the row, Ches shook
his hand loose and started to scramble over the back of the bench in
front of them.  Trace stretched er foot up to the top of the bench
back, and stepped up on it.  E tightened eir grip on Hal, who was
starting to squirm, and stepped straight up to the top of the bench.
E meant to be sure E didn't let Ches get too close to it before E
could see.

"I'd like to see," Hal mewed.  "I can't see anything."

"I can't see anything yet, either," Trace said as E took a long step
to the top of the next bench.  "Please stop wiggling."

Two more long steps and Trace was only one row behind the knot of
people in the apron, and could see into the gap between them.  Could
see _it_.

The machine had landed on eight legs, and was a dull metallic
silver-grey over most of its surface.  The bulk of it was cylindrical,
about a meter in diameter and with straight sides about a meter tall.
The top of its body was a hemisphere that seemed to be surfaced with
three-centimeter balls of a much darker grey that didn't shine like
metal.  There were four smaller vertical cylinders, about 15
centimeters in diameter, open at the top, evenly spaced and slightly
inset into the bulk of the main cylinder.  And there were letters
carved into cylinder's surface.

Trace couldn't make it all out from er distance, with other people
shifting around between er and it.  But it looked like Neuglish.  And
it wasn't the first word, but the largest word was "INVITED."

E stepped down to the seat of the bench E was standing on, and set Hal
down standing on the back, with eir arm firmly around Hal's waist for
balance.  As soon as Hal looked toward the machine, eir eyes went wide
and round, and eir mouth fell open with an unconscious "Oh...."

Ches climbed over the back of the bench a second later and stood
beside them.

They stayed that way for minutes.  Somewhere in the middle, Hal
reached up to hold both Ches' and Trace's hands.

As Trace started to get comfortable with the reality of the
machine--that it existed, that it had come here--the other people
around began to filter back into eir perception.  E noticed that there
was turn-over in the group closest to it.  Some people were deciding
they'd had enough, fading back into the group and letting others
closer.

E caught the eye of the theater's manager, Seymo, who was standing at the
edge of the stage opposite em, and trying to lower a small set of
stairs over the edge.  "If you're done," E'a called, "please leave to
this side."  E'a waved to his left, and a few people stopped trying
to push through the crush coming in.  Instead they climbed up onto the
stage and then walked in the requested direction, to where other
stairs had been placed at the base of the two aisles farthest away.
Apparently Seymo was trying to get a traffic flow going, turning the
crowd into a viewing for a machine.

Trace also saw that some people were coming up to the machine,
touching it.  Some were clearly hesitant.  Some were bold.  And some
reached up to hemisphere at the top....  People were taking hold of
the dark grey balls covering the top surface.  Each time one was
touched, it started to glow softly, and the person lifted it out and
away.  When they came free, E could see that the balls were actually
oblongs, like large eggs, except they had two blunt ends.  And each
time an oblong was removed, it looked like another would rise up from
within the machine to replace it.

Hal took a half-step forward on the bench.  "Can we....?"

"Yeah," Trace said.  E took a settling breath, pulled up and
straightened eir shoulders.  "Yes, let's go."

Ches hopped down and started to climb over the last bench between them
and it.  Trace lifted Hal over the bench-back, and then vaulted it
emself.  E took hold of both kids' wrists, and they started trying to
squeeze through to the center of the crowd.  Moments later the wall of
people parted, and they were standing just half a meter from it.  The
words on the side of the machine facing them made Trace tremble.  E
and Ches were staring when Hal started to read aloud:

> <pre>YOU ARE
> <span style="font-size: 200%">INVITED</span>
> TO TRAVEL WITH US
>
> TO BE CONSIDERED
> TAKE AN OVOID FROM ABOVE
> KEEP IT WITH YOU
> UNTIL WE ARRIVE
> <span style="font-size: 140%">IN 100 DAYS
> WE SHALL SELECT TWO</span></pre>

Hal finished.  And a beat passed.  Then Trace let go of Ches and eir
hand shot out to grab one of the oblongs from the edge facing them.
It immediately started to glow.  E felt a soft, pleasant warmth in eir
fingers, and it actually pushed up gently into eir hand.  When E
lifted it free and brought it back toward em, E saw there were subtle
patterns in the glow, shifting in waves across its surface,
highlighting and reflecting from the places where it touched eir skin.
E looked up again to see that both children were gaping at em.  As
suddenly as E had taken the oblong, E felt uncomfortable and
self-conscious.  E opened eir sporran and tucked it inside, feeling
something like a soft suction as E let it go.

"Shall we let someone else see?" Trace said.

"I want to go, too," said Ches and he started to reach forward.

"The probably wouldn't pick both of us," Trace started, but Ches' hand
was already on the exposed end of one of the oblongs.  And it didn't
react.  E was startled, even as the person next to em pulled one
glowing from the machine.  E gripped harder, trying to twist the
oblong free, but eir hand just slipped on the smooth surface.

E kept trying, with increasing frustration, until Trace put eir hand
on eir'a shoulder.  "Maybe you're too young?" E'a said.  E sighed and
dropped eir hand, then E lashed out, kicking the machine.  There was a
dull thud, and E winced, but nothing else happened.  The machine
stayed put.  Only a few of the people closest had noticed, and a
couple of the others nearest it went on to pluck out glowing oblongs.

"Can we let it be now?" Trace asked.

"OK," said Hal.  Ches sighed and looked down, but then started pushing
eir way around the machine to the stairs on the far side.  Trace
followed, still holding on to Hal, and making periodic apologies for
Ches as they went.

*****

Jacob didn't run all the way to the bridge.  After running for real
for a few minutes, E decided that if something terrible had happened,
E'd have seen or heard something, even from that far away.  Also, E
admitted to emself, E didn't do a whole lot of running.  E continued
on at a jog until E was dripping sweat and only a few hundred meters
from the bridge.  At this point E could clearly see that he wouldn't
even be in the first thousand people to reach the amphitheater.
There was now a steady flow of people from farther into the city
reaching the bridge, and more than a few people coming back over the
bridge from the amphitheater.  Thankfully, none of them seemed any the
worse for whatever had happened.

By the time E reached the base of the bridge, it was just dark enough
for the street lights to be on.  And full enough that they didn't have
a chance to turn off at all.  The flow of people was moving slowly
enough that E decided E wasn't going to get to wherever everyone was
going any time soon.  Instead of trying, E levered emself up onto the
coping along the edge of the bridge nearest him, and decided to sketch
a while.

The first thing that caught eir eye was a handful of Volunteers
working to separate the bridge into two separate lanes.  They had
their emergency kits open, fluorescent-yellow caps on, and cameras
blinking live.  One was standing almost exactly opposite Jacob, a
length of bright orange ribbon tied off at his knee, and a second end
held in his hand.  Two other Volunteers were unrolling the ribbons as
they walked down the center of the bridge toward the amphitheater.  E
wondered how long the Volunteer at his end of the bridge would have to
stand as a fence post before someone brought a more permanent
solution--and started drawing.

As the people flowed past Jacob, a pattern became clear: the far side
of the bridge were people going to the amphitheater, and their mood
was pretty consistent: tourists on an adventure.  They were
anticipating, eager, and had no sign of the fear that Jacob had felt
when E first spotted the something coming out of the sky.  But the
only thing in common for the people on eir side of the bridge was that
they'd all been _affected_.  Animated, anxious, sober, withdrawn, even
visibly in awe.  And in a few people, fear too.

By the time Jacob had filled six broad pages, mostly with thumbnails
of people and their expressions, E thought E'd pieced together what
had happened tonight, although it seemed hard to believe.  The bits of
conversation he heard as people passed assembled into quite a puzzle:
"Saviors," "of course it's them," "I always knew they'd come back,"
"but what if it's someone else?" "Why 100 days?  Are they our days?"
"I don't believe anyone actually _wants_ to go--go where?  How long?"
