---
---


## Chapter 2

Trace strained to look up, but couldn't see where the whining scream
above them was coming from.  E took a quick glance around--Hal and
Ches were both standing still and staring up.  E looked back up.  The
sound was actually getting louder, but dropping in pitch and spreading
out into a roar.  After maybe fifteen of the longest seconds
ever, E caught a glint of something small, almost straight above them,
falling fast.

It was down to about 300 meters and clearly _slowing_ as it fell.  E
realized it must not be falling at all, which gave em a simultaneous
chill and thrill of anticipation.  After another moment it was down
into the amphitheater, behind the wall that separated the plaza from
the slope of seating.  E turned and ran over to Hal and Ches, still
standing and looking through em back to where it had dropped out of
sight.  The roar finally dies out as E picked up Hal, grabbed Ches'
hand, and started back toward the arch where they'd come out just a
minute before.

They were through the arch and a third of the way down the aisle
toward the stage before it occurred to Trace that maybe they were
headed in the wrong direction.  A handful of people were running past
them going out, but most people seemed to have made the same choice.
That there was more to be curious about than to fear, that actually
seeing what it was mattered.  E still couldn't see it, but from the
way the crowd ahead of er was moving, it wasn't on the stage
itself.  It must be in the space between the slightly-raised stage and
the first row--where the orchestra pit was in the big opera house in
the city.

There were six rows left between them and the front of the
amphitheater when they had to stop because everyone in front of them
had.  The apron in front of the stage had filled with people, and the
crush was backed up into the aisles.  The slope of the seating was
steep enough that Trace could see that there was a circular gap in the
crowd, but not whatever was in it.  _What had landed in it_, the back
of er mind whispered.

Ches jumped up a couple of times, trying to see.  Then, with eir hand
still in eris'a, started to hurry down the row next to them, toward
the center of the amphitheater.  Trace followed, still holding Hal up
in eir left arm.  When they got to the middle of the row, Ches shook
his hand loose and started to scramble over the back of the bench in
front of them.  Trace stretched er foot up to the top of the bench
back, and stepped up on it.  E tightened eir grip on Hal, who was
starting to squirm, and stepped straight up to the top of the bench.
E meant to be sure E didn't let Ches get too close to it before E
could see.

"I'd like to see," Hal mewed.  "I can't see anything."

"I can't see anything yet, either," Trace said as E took a long step
to the top of the next bench.  "Please stop wiggling."

Two more long steps and Trace was only one row behind the knot of
people in the apron, and could see into the gap between them.  Could
see _it_.

The machine had landed on eight legs, and was a dull metallic
silver-grey over most of its surface.  The bulk of it was cylindrical,
about a meter in diameter and with straight sides about a meter tall.
The top of its body was a hemisphere that seemed to be surfaced with
three-centimeter balls of a much darker grey that didn't shine like
metal.  There were four smaller vertical cylinders, about 15
centimeters in diameter, open at the top, evenly spaced and slightly
inset into the bulk of the main cylinder.  And there were letters
carved into cylinder's surface.

Trace couldn't make it all out from er distance, with other people
shifting around between er and it.  But it looked like Neuglish.  And
it wasn't the first word, but the largest word was "INVITED."

E stepped down to the seat of the bench E was standing on, and set Hal
down standing on the back, with eir arm firmly around Hal's waist for
balance.  As soon as Hal looked toward the machine, eir eyes went wide
and round, and eir mouth fell open with an unconscious "Oh...."

Ches climbed over the back of the bench a second later and stood
beside them.

They stayed that way for minutes.  Somewhere in the middle, Hal
reached up to hold both Ches' and Trace's hands.

As Trace started to get comfortable with the reality of the
machine--that it existed, that it had come here--the other people
around began to filter back into eir perception.  E noticed that there
was turn-over in the group closest to it.  Some people were deciding
they'd had enough, fading back into the group and letting others
closer.

E caught the eye of the theater's manager, Seymo, who was standing at the
edge of the stage opposite em, and trying to lower a small set of
stairs over the edge.  "If you're done," E'a called, "please leave to
this side."  E'a waved to his left, and a few people stopped trying
to push through the crush coming in.  Instead they climbed up onto the
stage and then walked in the requested direction, to where other
stairs had been placed at the base of the two aisles farthest away.
Apparently Seymo was trying to get a traffic flow going, turning the
crowd into a viewing for a machine.

Trace also saw that some people were coming up to the machine,
touching it.  Some were clearly hesitant.  Some were bold.  And some
reached up to hemisphere at the top....  People were taking hold of
the dark grey balls covering the top surface.  Each time one was
touched, it started to glow softly, and the person lifted it out and
away.  When they came free, E could see that the balls were actually
oblongs, like large eggs, except they had two blunt ends.  And each
time an oblong was removed, it looked like another would rise up from
within the machine to replace it.

Hal took a half-step forward on the bench.  "Can we....?"

"Yeah," Trace said.  E took a settling breath, pulled up and
straightened eir shoulders.  "Yes, let's go."

Ches hopped down and started to climb over the last bench between them
and it.  Trace lifted Hal over the bench-back, and then vaulted it
emself.  E took hold of both kids' wrists, and they started trying to
squeeze through to the center of the crowd.  Moments later the wall of
people parted, and they were standing just half a meter from it.  The
words on the side of the machine facing them made Trace tremble.  E
and Ches were staring when Hal started to read aloud:

> <pre style="font-size: 60%">YOU ARE
> <span style="font-size: 200%">INVITED</span>
> TO TRAVEL WITH US
>
> TO BE CONSIDERED
> TAKE AN OVOID FROM ABOVE
> KEEP IT WITH YOU
> UNTIL WE ARRIVE
> <span style="font-size: 140%">IN 100 DAYS
> WE SHALL SELECT TWO</span></pre>

Hal finished.  And a beat passed.  Then Trace let go of Ches and eir
hand shot out to grab one of the oblongs from the edge facing them.
It immediately started to glow.  E felt a soft, pleasant warmth in eir
fingers, and it actually pushed up gently into eir hand.  When E
lifted it free and brought it back toward em, E saw there were subtle
patterns in the glow, shifting in waves across its surface,
highlighting and reflecting from the places where it touched eir skin.
E looked up again to see that both children were gaping at em.  As
suddenly as E had taken the oblong, E felt uncomfortable and
self-conscious.  E opened eir sporran and tucked it inside, feeling
something like a soft suction as E let it go.

"Shall we let someone else see?" Trace said.

"I want to go, too," said Ches and he started to reach forward.

"They probably wouldn't pick both of us," Trace started, but Ches' hand
was already on the exposed end of one of the oblongs.  And it didn't
react.  E was startled, even as the person next to em pulled one
glowing from the machine.  E gripped harder, trying to twist the
oblong free, but eir hand just slipped on the smooth surface.

E kept trying, with increasing frustration, until Trace put eir hand
on eir'a shoulder.  "Maybe you're too young?" E'a said.  E sighed and
dropped eir hand, then E lashed out, kicking the machine.  There was a
dull thud, and E winced, but nothing else happened.  The machine
stayed put.  Only a few of the people closest had noticed, and a
couple of the others nearest it went on to pluck out glowing oblongs.

"Can we let it be now?" Trace asked.

"OK," said Hal.  Ches sighed and looked down, but then started pushing
eir way around the machine to the stairs on the far side.  Trace
followed, still holding on to Hal, and making periodic apologies for
Ches as they went.

*****

Jacob didn't run all the way to the bridge.  After running for real
for a few minutes, E decided that if something terrible had happened,
E'd have seen or heard something, even from that far away.  Also, E
admitted to emself, E didn't do a whole lot of running.  E continued
on at a jog until E was dripping sweat and only a few hundred meters
from the bridge.  At this point E could clearly see that he wouldn't
even be in the first thousand people to reach the amphitheater.
There was now a steady flow of people from farther into the city
reaching the bridge, and more than a few people coming back over the
bridge from the amphitheater.  Thankfully, none of them seemed any the
worse for whatever had happened.

By the time E reached the base of the bridge, it was just dark enough
for the street lights to be on.  And full enough that they didn't have
a chance to turn off at all.  The flow of people was moving slowly
enough that E decided E wasn't going to get to wherever everyone was
going any time soon.  Instead of trying, E levered emself up onto the
coping along the edge of the bridge nearest him, and decided to sketch
a while.

The first thing that caught eir eye was a handful of Volunteers
working to separate the bridge into two separate lanes.  They had
their emergency kits open, fluorescent-yellow caps on, and cameras
blinking live.  One was standing almost exactly opposite Jacob, a
length of bright orange ribbon tied off at his knee, and a second end
held in his hand.  Two other Volunteers were unrolling the ribbons as
they walked down the center of the bridge toward the amphitheater.  E
wondered how long the Volunteer at his end of the bridge would have to
stand as a fence post before someone brought a more permanent
solution--and started drawing.

As the people flowed past Jacob, a pattern became clear: the far side
of the bridge were people going to the amphitheater, and their mood
was pretty consistent: tourists on an adventure.  They were
anticipating, eager, and had no sign of the fear that Jacob had felt
when E first spotted the something coming out of the sky.  But the
only thing in common for the people on eir side of the bridge was that
they'd all been _affected_.  Animated, anxious, sober, withdrawn, even
visibly in awe.  And in a few people, fear too.

By the time Jacob had filled six broad pages, mostly with thumbnails
of people and their expressions, E thought E'd pieced together what
had happened tonight, although it seemed hard to believe.  The bits of
conversation he heard as people passed assembled into quite a puzzle:
"Saviors," "of course it's them," "I always knew they'd come back,"
"but what if it's someone else?" "Why 100 days?  Are they our days?"
"I don't believe anyone actually _wants_ to go.  Go where?  Until
when?"

*****

By eleven o'clock, Jacob had started into a second sketch pad.  E
was currently fascinated with the street lighting glowing through the
city.  The breadth of the Alameda cut straight up from the bridge
through the center of the city, and every inch of it E could see was
lit up.  Not a single inch of it dark the way it would be if it were
empty.  E could see the pattern of streets branching off, then into
smaller and smaller side streets, before ending in little alleys and
courtyards, all woven between the spirals of farm land breached by
nothing but little foot paths.

E was filling in the glow E could see from the farthest edge of the
city, well up the hill to the north, when eir phone rang.  Jacob
instantly winced with embarrassment and regret.  E'd never left eir
mates not knowing where E was for so long before, let alone on a night
when everything was upside down like this.  E pulled the phone from
eir sporran, noted the name displayed as E answered.

"I'm sorry, Jess.  Please tell Berry I'm sorry too.  I'm at the foot
of the bridge watching the crowd and...."

"Drawing.  We'd guessed.  And we love you.  I'm glad you're
there--were close enough to see things.  The news said that nobody was
hurt, so we weren't too worried.  Have you actually seen it yet?
They're calling it 'The Invitation.'  There are cameras on the stage
now, so there's video of people taking 'ovoids' from it.  What an odd
word.  It's right, of course, but I'd never have used it."

E took a breath, and Jacob jumped in.  "I'm so glad you weren't
worried.  I shouldn't have been this long without calling.  I haven't
seen it yet--didn't even know for sure that it was an 'it'--but I
could start for home now if youse wanted?"

"It looks like the streets and subs are full everywhere.  We put the
kids to bed a couple hours ago.  It might be a shorter trip if you
wait a bit before starting back.  Do you want to stay down there?  Are
you going to go into the amphitheater and see it?  Are you...."

Jess trailed off.  Jacob didn't guess what the last question would
have been.  "I'm not sure."  E made a click-click noise with his
tongue.  "I feel fine.  And the people leaving are moving slower than
the ones still coming down."  click-click.  "I want to get in line to
go in and see.  I don't know how long it will be.  And I might stop to
sketch."  E chuckled, "Some more."

"It's OK.  We might still be up when you get back--it's so
exciting--but it's OK if not, too.  Berry says to take care of
yourself and to be careful--just because nothing's happened yet
doesn't mean it's really safe.  Think about us.  Think about the
kids."

"Of course.  I always am, even when I'm drawing and don't know what
time it is.  I'll try to get on the bridge now.  Call me later if you
want.  Anything more right now?"

"Oh.  Well.  I don't know.  I guess not.  I love you.  We love you."

"I love youse, too," Jacob said, "Thanks!  Bye!"

E clicked the phone off, feeling a little off balance.  E shook it
off, packed his supplies up, and dropped off the wall.  It was slow
going, trying to get through all the people leaving and over to the
far side of the bridge to join up with those heading across to the
amphitheater.

*****

Trace, Hal, and Ches reached the plaza, and those around them spread
out a little.  All the people who'd come up their aisle were walking
toward the left side of the bridge, where they merged with other
columns of people from the aisles on their side of the amphitheater.
People were settling into clear flows in and out, and the attitudes of
the ones coming in had clearly changed from the concern E had felt to
curiosity and excitement.

"I think you two should call your parents.  They could be worried; not
know what's happening down here."

"Oh!" said Hal, and zipped open eir sporran.

"Wow, thank you, I didn't think...." said Ches.  E unclipped eir phone
from eir belt.

Trace listened to them chatter, rationalizing putting off eir own call
by waiting until after theirs.  "Hi!" "Hey, we're heading home now."
"So _many_ people." "It's really small for a space ship." "It was
really loud coming down." "Trace wasn't afraid at all." "I'm glad it
didn't land on anyone."

It went on for several minutes.  E couldn't blame the parents for
wanting to keep talking for a while--it must have been hard not having
eir children at home with things literally falling out of the sky.  E
felt a twinge of guilt at not having them call earlier.  And a burst
of gratitude that eir family didn't have children to fear for on a day
like this.

Thinking about it reminded em of the glowing _thing_ E'd grabbed from
the machine.  Trace imagined E could feel the weight of carrying it,
and peaked in the top of eir sporran, and saw that it was still
glowing.  It, _having_ it, made so many feelings swim around in em
that E couldn't sort any of them out.

It took what felt like a long time for them to reach the city end of
the bridge.  Both of the kids had finished their conversations.  Trace
could see the end of the bridge's rail-wall ahead of them, when E
noticed someone sitting on the rail on the opposite side.  E'a was
sitting on the coping, legs dangling, wearing a flamingo tunic and
black pants, with a scarlet shoulder bag, and drawing furiously on a
lap desk.  E'a looked up, scanning the crowd on the bridge slowly and
deliberately.  The artist was butch, with short, straight black hair.
Eir'a eyes were wide-set, narrow, and absolutely pierced Trace when
their gazes met.  E didn't feel like it was a personal connection, but
the completeness with which E was _observed_.

It reminded Trace of how E looked today: E was wearing a light tan gi,
a copper hair comb with flowers in eir dark, springy hair, and a
matching arm ring clipped around the outside of eir right sleeve.  E
looked down.  The rest of eir outfit was practical:  chestnut-colored
leather sandals, showing off eir feet which were just a shade
lighter.  Eir belt and sporran matched the sandals, and eir saber's
scabbard was made of walnut, lightly stained, and hung at eir left
hip.

The moment passed.  The artist had eir head back down, focused, and
Trace and eir'a charges were off the bridge and onto the plaza.  They
were over 12 clicks from Hal's family's apartment (Ches lived just
down-stairs from Trace).  On em own and in no hurry, Trace might jog
that distance.  But tonight, with the kids and every street probably
full, taking the sub was the only choice.  The plaza's station was
just across and off to their right, but almost everyone going to or
coming from the bridge was trying to jam onto the stairs down to it.

Trace grabbed the kids' wrists again, and walked them up the left edge
of the Alameda.  Two blocks south, E took them left into a major
avenue.  Another block east and they were past the apartment and shop
buildings lining the Alameda, and at the entry to a plain of solar
collectors mixed with the workshops and mills that were powered by
them.  Where there was another sub station.  There were still more
people coming and going than E'd ever expect to be there at this time
of night, but it seemed empty by comparison to the crowds they'd been
in since the machine came.

Familiarity gave the kids a burst of energy and they rushed ahead of
Trace, trotting down the broad, shallow steps into the station.  She
caught up to them as Ches was entering their destination, and that
there were three of them, into one of the booking boards hanging on
the pillars running in two rows down the length of the concourse.
When E was done, it flashed the station's floor plan, showing which
coach they'd use, and the time until departure: 6 minutes.

Trace let Ches lead as they walked more than half way down the
concourse and to a gate on the right.  It was already open, their
coach having arrived and unloaded already.  They went in, finding it
was a small one, but with five people already in it.  There were two
adults at one end, holding hands and talking quietly.  At the other
end were three tweens--one crouched on the bench and the others
standing on either side of em.  They were talking loudly, gesturing
all around.  Trace and the kids stood quietly against the closed door
on the opposite side of the coach from the one they'd come

Trace continued to listen to group of kids.  They'd still been in the
amphitheater when the machine came down--they'd seen it land.  They'd
all tried to take an ovoid from it, and none of them succeeded.

Another group of three came in, and then four adults and a toddler.
The coach was crowded now, and even though it was still almost a
minute before their posted departure time, both inner and outer doors
started their ponderously-slow close.

*****

They ended up getting a fairly direct routing.  The coach only stopped
once along the way, at the Via/Agricola hub.  The couple, and the
people with their toddler got out.  Nobody got on.  Trace wasn't
surprised--almost anyone getting in a sub tonight who wasn't coming
from the amphitheater would be going to it, and their coach wouldn't
swing back that way for a while.

They got out at the next stop, followed by the three tweens.  The
station was busy.  As they walked the concourse to the stairs, two
other coaches arrived, probably larges by the number of people who got
out and joined the throng heading up.  At least as many were on the
way down--enough to make lines at the booking boards.  At street
level, every street light was on as far as Trace could see.  E'd never
seen anything like this away from hubs or an entertainment district.

They walked directly to the building Hal lived in, a four-story
building with three different clothiers and a small grocery on the
first floor, a print shop on the second, and a courtyard where they
grew tea along with vegetables.  Trace normally left Hal to walk up
on eir own, but tonight wanted to actually see em go in, see Trace's
sibling and the rest of eir'a family.

The courtyard lights came on as they turned into the archway
connecting it to the street, and Hal started running ahead, leaping
over every-other stepping stone as she dashed between the bushes and
to the base of one of the metal stairs up the inner walls.  Trace and
Ches walked along behind, getting to the base just as Hal got to the
walkway on the third floor.

"I'm going to wait over here," said Ches, gesturing to a stand of
bushes.

"I won't be long," said Trace, and started up the stairs.  When E got
to the open apartment door, they were all still in mid-hug.  Hal had
been lifted off eir feet, dangling with an arm over each of eir
parents' shoulders.  There was Maj, Trace's sibling, squeezing Hal and
eir'a partner Michael together.  And Hal's younger sibling Lydon was
between their parents, hugging Hal's legs.  Trace hoped E was just
caught up in the moment and hadn't been worried about Hal, too.

As the group hug finally broke, Trace put eir arm around Maj'
shoulders.  They were four years apart, and growing up Maj had always
seemed so much bigger and stronger.  Trace still enjoyed that they'd
grown up the same height and basically the same build.  Trace and Maj
were both just a couple centimeters short of two meters (Michael was
another three shorter), both thin and long-limbed.  But Trace's years
of training and performing had filled in that shared frame with hard
muscle.  They'd never have been mistaken for twins, Maj had gotten the
stronger cheekbones and gold flecks in her dark eyes, but now Trace
was clearly the strong one.

E reached down and picked up Lydon.  "How have you been?  Are you
looking forward to your class starting pageant rehearsals?"  Trace
didn't want to bring up the landing earlier with Lydon, without
knowing what they might have already been saying about it here.

"Only two weeks!" Lydon smiled, but then frowned.  "But what about the
Invitation?  Will we get to have the pageant if it is still by the
stage?  Will they move it?"

"I don't know, Lydon.  It's pretty small, it would only block the view
from a few seats.  But maybe people won't want to be around it in a
month."
