---
---


## Chapter 4

Trace woke on eir side, Ricar spooned against eir back, eir arm across
Ruth's belly in front of eir.  E wondered which side Jom had ended
up on.  Then E wondered if em'd ever wonder that again--if this would
really be em last morning with them, or if they'd all be back home
together tonight talking about whatever had happened.

The alarm hadn't gone off.  From the sunshine coming in there was an
hour, maybe hour and a half, before it would.  They'd agreed yesterday
to sleep late, that they believed the consensus that whatever was
going to happen, it would be around the same time that the Invitation
had come, and there was nothing to be gained by trying to be among the
first to be in the amphitheater.

E scooted out of the covers until E was sitting up on the pillow.
Trying not to wake anyone, E stood up in the half-meter of bed between
the pillows and the headboard.  Jom was on the other side of Ricar, so
E stepped cautiously around Ruth's head and down.  The cats asleep at
the dressing table, one in each of the two chairs.  E envied that they
didn't understand that a big change in their routine might happen
tonight.

Trace walked nude to the band of windows that filled most of the
outside wall, pulled over a foot stool, and sat down.  Eir arms on the
window ledge, E rested eir chin on the back of eir hands and tried to
steady emself.  As soon as E'd gotten out of bed, the tension in eir
stomach had solidified into a knot.  It felt like it just kept getting
heavier, pulling down on everything inside eir.

E heard a rustling behind eir, then the pad of feet across the
bamboo.  When E felt Ricar's hand on eir shoulder, there was a wave of
relief and E turned eir head into eir'a forearm.  "I couldn't make
myself go there without youse, and the only reason I'm going is for
the chance to leave.  Why am I like this?  Why didn't I do something
to back out instead of packing?"

"Because you want to go more than you want to stay, even if you can't
explain what you really want to yourself.  And I want that for you.
I'm grateful being with us makes it easier for you to try."  E leaned
eir head down into eir'a hair, feeling the soft springiness envelope
his face.  "And I'll miss you terribly if you go, but it won't hurt as
much as watching you live with regret."  E lifed eir head, shook eir'a
shoulder gently.  "Besides, you'll probably be back next week."

Ricar shifted to stand directly behind Trace, eir thighs pressed
against eir'a back, eir'a hair tickling his dick, and put a hand on
each of eir'a shoulders.  Trace sighed, and they stayed like that
until the others woke.

*****

