---
---


## Chapter 5

Jacob stepped through the hatch and into the ship.  E could feel the
threshold, as if an invisible inner door had parted just at the edges
of eir body.  E passed through, a sensation sweeping across em, part
cold, as if a metal rolling pin were being passed over eir bare skin
from front to back, and part oddly uncomfortable, like biting into a
too-hot pepper, if somehow eir skin was able to taste.

E also had a clenching in eir stomach, like being in an elevator that
was starting to sink and ascend simultaneously.  Once E was two full
steps inside, E paused, literally shaking eir head to clear it, and
then looked around.  The single circular room looked like it occupied
the entire bottom of the ship.  Bright light cam in the hatch behind
em, and the other one to eir right that the sword-performer now stood
in front of, bent over with eir'a hands on eir'a knees.

It was dim inside.  Jacob might have described it as mood lighting,
except it had a cool, grey tone instead of warm.  The floor, ceiling,
and circular wall were all glowing with images of the amphitheater and
sky.  The effect was uncanny--as if the outside of the ship were made
from darkened glass, except the images were obviously flat, with no
sense of parallax from the objects outside.  There was a solid black
band, about fifteen centimeters wide, around the floor where the wall
joined it, at the corner between wall and ceiling, and around an
oblong opening in the ceiling about a third of the way around the ship
to their right.  The opening was above what Jacob realized was a
curving staircase from this room into what must be one above it.

E recoiled for a moment at the thought of the stairs--they seemed
incredibly unsafe.  The treads weren't even as deep as the length of
eir foot, and the distance up from each was larger than the treads'
depth.  Each step was barely a centimeter thick, protruding directly
from the wall, with no apparent support.  There was nothing connecting
the steps together vertically, and no railing.  Nothing at all to stop
a small child or animal from falling off or through.

This didn't seem to bother the Saviors though, as the one that the
other person was following reached the bottom of them and started up.
Jacob was startled by how E ascended--seeming to just keep walking
with eir normal stride length, regardless of the number of steps up
each step forward took them.  As E was going up, the Savior Jacob had
followed turned around to face them.  Em'a raised and spread eir'a
arms, in what Jacob took to be a welcoming gesture.  "Comfort-taking,
sit or stand," the Savior said.  E'a was the one with the soprano
voice.  "Three Moments on, leaving Gan.  Should make ease."  And with
that, E'a turned again and mounted the steps.

Jacob turned to the other person, who was standing again.  "So, did
that mean that we should stay down here?  Oh, and hi, I'm Jacob."

E passed eir hand over eir face, turned to em'a, and tried to grin.
Though Jacob could still see the shine of tears in the corners of eir
beautiful, dark eyes.  "Hello Jacob, I'm Trace."

"I'm happy to meet you.  And very happy they didn't invite just one of
us.  I believe I've seen you perform."  E didn't want to mention the
day E filmed em'a practicing under the oaks.  "That was you in the
circus last spring, fighting off all those jugglers' batons?"

Trace's grin became real, dipped toward sheepish.  "Yes, that was my
act.  I'm glad it was memorable.  I think I've seen your work, too.
Are you the one who drew the series of pictures of the city viewed
from the blimp?"

"Yeah, those were mine.  Years ago.  I'm glad you saw them."

"Me too.  And yes," Trace said, shifting the large bag on eir back, "I
think they mean for us to stay down here."  E started across the broad
floor, headed for the opposite wall.

Jacob noticed a dimming behind em.  E turned back and could see the
last two Saviors standing just outside the ship.  E walked in from the
hatch, making room for em'a to enter.  The Savior walked in behind em,
and then sat down cross-legged directly in front of the opening.
After that, and the other Savior had come in and sat on an open-legged
ottoman on the far side of eir'e hatch.  Then, the outer doors started
to swing down and in to close the hatches.  Their inside surface was a
dull grey until they came to rest, when they lit up showing the rest
of the view out.

Trace had reached the far side of the cabin, and put eir duffel bag
down in the area under the steps up.  Then E turned back to survey the
space.  There were a number of chairs of different types around the
room: a second ottoman, a classic wing-back armchair, a very
low-backed love seat, and a couple that looked like dining-table
chairs, except the backs were narrow padded bars.

Jacob walked over to the love seat, set eir backpacks down behind it,
and then wedged his shoulder bags up on edge between them.  E itched
to take out one of the pads E brought and sketch the room around them,
but knew E wasn't comfortable enough to produce good work.  And wanted
to believe E didn't need a distraction badly enough to waste supplies
just as a pacifier.  There was a barely audible hum E couldn't locate
at first, but then noticed that the rings around the top of the ship
were rotating down again.  They were back horizontal, and then the hum
stopped.

The ship leapt into the air.  The floor lit up with an image of the
stage below them as soon as they were off the ground at all.  Then the
blades in the rings blurred and the legs retracted again.  All without
any feeling of motion at all.  Jacob was still standing next to the
love seat, but saw that Trace had reacted by dropping into slight
crouch, arms out for balance.  E wasn't sure E'a was aware of eir'a
pose yet, though, because eir'a eyes were wide and fixed on the image
of the city filling the wall to eir right.  It had been only a few
seconds, but they were already at least three hundred meters up and
accelerating.  The wedge of the amphitheater, still directly below
them, was starting to dwindle.  The bright lights in the theater and
across the bridge contrasted with the darkness around them and the sky
light glinting off the river.

As the amphitheater shrank away from them, the breadth of the city
spread out to the side.  Jacob and Trace were mesmerized.  Even the
two Saviors in the cabin with them were watching the view as they
rose.  Just as they could see the full extent of Haran, its circular
Border, the great dark countryside surrounding it, and the handful of
sparkling peaks behind the city to the south.  Just as they rose above
the highest peak, almost two klicks up, there were suddenly no images
on the walls.  Jacob gasped--E had almost entirely forgotten they were
watching images on walls, rather than reality through windows.  They
were left looking around in the barely-lit cabin, the walls giving off
the very faint glow of a backlit screen displaying all black.

It was just a moment later when the walls brightened and Jacob
understood what had happened.  They had been in the clouds!  The
clouds that were now spread out as far as they could see below them.
The sky and stars were crystal clear around them.  Primary was waning
gibbous in the east, all but a sliver above the horizon, and three of
its other moons were also visible.  When they'd first emerged from the
clouds, they looked like wispy hills and mountains above them.  As
they continued to rise, the detail blurred until the cloud layer
looked like a fluffy grey blanket, with a barely visible bright patch
over what must have been the city almost straight down.

Jacob couldn't judge their height at all any more.  Three klicks above
the clouds?  Ten?  A little more than a minute after they'd emerged
from the clouds, a soft hissing was added to the background noise.  At
the same time, black ovals appeared in the ceiling view, stretching
between the bases of each of the fan rings.  The rings then rotated up
again, and then faded out of the image altogether.  The hiss deepened
and got a little louder, until it sounded like a heavy flow of water
from a faucet in another room.

E suddenly felt a wave of vertigo, as if E were suddenly falling over
even though E still felt like E was standing up straight.  Jacob
lurched back, then forward again when E felt like E really was going
to fall.  An instant later the vertigo left em as E realized what was
happening: the ship was gradually tilting over, pointing its top
toward the east, and making it look like the carpet of clouds below
them was rising up to meet eir face.  E closed eir eyes, and was sure
E was standing up straight.  E opened them, and could see the eastern
horizon line a meter up the wall from where it joined the floor and
rising.

E heard a thump, and looked back to eir left where Trace had been
standing.  E'a had a tremendous smile and looked like E'a'd just
landed from a jump.  As E watched, E'a did a standing backflip and
landed with another thump.  Then a standing forward flip.  The ship
had gotten more than half-way over to horizontal relative to the cloud
deck, and Jacob started to feel nauseous.  And hot.

E took off his jacket, revealing a charcoal crossover-front v-neck
shirt with two-centimeter facings of light grey satin and fastened by
a button above eir right hip.  Jacob carefully laid the jacket over
eir backpacks, then even more cautiously settled emself into the love
seat.  E laid back, dangling eir legs over the arm at one end, and
tried to hold very, very still.

*****

It had been about twenty minutes since the Saviors' ship had taken
them off the ground, and Trace kept forgetting to breathe if E didn't
make an effort to remember.  Jacob was lying on the little couch where
he'd been for a while, looking pallid and sweaty.  E'd noticed that
shortly after launch, the two Saviors in the room had turned their
attention from the scenery to the humans.  E pretended not to have.

Trace realized E'd also let her knees lock up while E watched the
world turn below them.  E did some deep knee bends, then took a couple
of steps over to the arm chair, which was a couple more steps away
from the end of the little couch where Jacob's head was.  E rotated
the chair so it faced the wall that now looked "down" onto the planet
below.  Deliberately, E unbuckled and removed eir belt, leaving the
sporran and saber attached.  E buckled it again and hung it over a
corner of the chair back.  Then E removed eir gi top, hung it from the
opposite corner, and sat down in the chair cross-legged.  E was glad
em'd worn the thermals under eir gi.  They had been just warm enough
in the amphitheater, and now the lemon yellow knit was cheering as the
wonder at everything warred in em with a bottomless sense of
loneliness.

E decided it was time to see if enigmatic was the extent of eir hosts
personalities.  E made eye contact with the Savior sitting on the
ottoman.  "Hi, I'm Trace.  What is your name?"

E turned at the waist, upper body facing Trace squarely.  "Hello
Trace.  I label Ahn-suahftah.  Welcome to travel."

"Thank you, Ahn-suahftah.  I am pleased to travel with you.  Where are
we going?"

"When?"

Trace frowned slightly.  "Right now.  Where will we arrive next?  How
long do you expect we will remain in this ship, and where will we be
when we get out?"

"Short time. Proximate transfer within Ahn tor-ship Velensis."

"Right."  Trace blinked.  "And do you know how long we'll be traveling
with youse?"

"No," said Ahn-suahftah.

_Well_, thought Trace, _at least that's better than "forever."_ And
"forever" wouldn't be the worst thing if E could spend it with the
view that they had at that moment.

Trace studied the Savior.  E was the only one that they'd seen so far
who was bald, though E did have eyebrows and lashes.  Eir complexion
was olive over all, but as E'd talked, Trace had thought E'a'd seen a
lightening start around the crown of eir head.  Eir shirt was some
kind of pull-over with elbow-length sleeves and the opening at the top
cut wide to expose the tops of eir shoulders.  It and the pants were
skin-tight and clingy, colored pine-needle green with narrow
loam-colored piping around the collar, cuffs, and hem.  The ubiquitous
boots were dark green.

E'd been sitting perfectly straight, but it hadn't appeared forced or
uncomfortable, and since E'd turned to Trace, there'd been no
additional motion or sign that E couldn't sit half-twisted
indefinitely.  Eir hands remained with the palms against eir thighs,
with no hint toward gesturing while E was speaking.

Trace found emself considering the shape of Ahn-suahftah's body
through eir'a clothes.  E hadn't spent a moment's consideration on the
bare breasts of the Savior who'd walked em up to the ship, but now was
closely examining eir'a shape.  Ahn-suahftah had a barrel chest and
small breasts.  Eir'a stomach was perfectly smooth, and before E'a had
twisted, Trace had noticed a dimple where E expected eir'a navel.
Eir'a legs were girthy with thick ankles, but currently relaxed.  And
Trace peered long enough to be sure E'a had a bulge at eir'a groin.

E glanced away.  "How many of youse are there?  Will you be with us
while we are traveling?  What are youse called?  Do you mind us
calling youse Saviors?"

"Our kind are Chaiken, and we are 52 and one tenth millions, Ahn, Ree,
and Thal.  We are six within this raft and twenty-two uns our touring
party."

E took a moment to digest.  There were barely more than half a million
of them in Haran--all the people in the universe.  E had a hard time
imagining a hundred times that many, though E knew from history that
there'd once been unfathomable billions of humans.

There was a rustling behind em, and E craned around to look over the
back of eir chair.  Jacob had rolled over onto eir'a side and was
looking toward em and the Sav--Chaiken.  E'a seemed greatly improved.

Trace turned back to Ahn-suahftah, said "I like your name.  Is that
your full name, or is there something more?  Is there a short version
of your name that you like people to use?"

There was a tug and ripple around eir eyes.  Trace noticed it, but
couldn't interpret it, or even feel confident it was some kind of
expression.  But E answered, "Only and complete name point now.  Youse
may abridge like 'tah.  You are solely Trace?"

"Yes," Trace grinned.  "It's just Trace."  E was beginning to feel
like E was creeping up on being able to communicate and understand.
"Will youse--"

Trace's voice turned to a gasp, all of eir attention pulled toward the
image of the world still filling the wall.  A glow had started along
the limb of the planet, and was rapidly running toward the poles as it
brightened.  A moment later the point directly ahead of them
brightened and flared as the sun shown directly through the
atmosphere.  As the disk of the sun extended above the thin peel of
air around the world, the image in the wall shifted--the sun no longer
shown as bright, but in negative, with the center somehow darker than
the black used for space itself, and surface spots and the corona
drawn in different shades of dark grey.  The bright strip of surface
continued to expand as they came closer to whatever part of the
morning was arriving in at the moment.

The thought of morning deepened Trace's sense of unreality.  It
couldn't be even eight o'clock at night yet, almost a whole night left
to go before it would be morning in eir city.  E had a tremendous urge
to get out eir phone and check the time.  And then wondered if it
would still be working at all.  But eir curiosity could wait, there
was endless amazement before them.  A vast ocean--_an ocean_--spread
out to the north.  E could see islands in it, colored by the
not-quite-navy Blue of the trees outside Haran, surrounded in the
lighter blue of water with a line of reflected sunlight racing across
it as they flew.

There was a noise of thrashing cloth behind eir.  E pulled away from
the view to look back where Jacob lay, and saw the E'a was crouched
over the small couch's low back, rifling through the bags E'a'd
brought.  E'a straightened up holding some kind of drawing board with
a pad on it, and seemed to be drawing on it even before E'a'd finished
sitting back down.  Trace took the opportunity to get up and walk
across the empty center of the cabin.  E stood for a moment, next to
the end of the couch opposite from where Jacob sat, to be sure E
wasn't unwelcome.  E pulled off eir boots, sat them next to the end of
the couch, then sat with eir butt on the corner of the low-back and
matching arm, eir feet on the seat cushion.  From this perch, eir view
took in the planet below, Jacob, and the two Chaiken.  The latter both
clearly watching em.

*****

The next half hour passed without a word spoken.  Trace was engrossed
in the landscape speeding past below and the ever-changing perspective
as they continued to slowly ascend.  E occasionally looked over at
Jacob, whose furious drawing never paused.

"Ahn see'Chil-set" said 'tah, looking and pointing toward the ceiling.

The other Chaiken in the cabin looked up.  "Yes, praise Chil-set unto
uns."  E unfolded eir crossed legs keeping eir feet under em, and then
rising straight up until E was standing.

_Show off_, Trace thought.  E could have done that, but wouldn't have
bothered without reason.  E watched as the Chaiken walked across the
cabin until E'a was standing below a bright point of light at the spot
where 'tah had been pointing.  Eir'a appearance hadn't changed much
since Trace first saw em'a on the stage; the light areas on eir'a
arms had expanded into rings.

E'a extended eir'a arm toward the ceiling, fingers extended.  E'a
moved eir'a hand around in two quick circles and then straight out to
eir'a side about half a meter.  The image on the ceiling blurred and
shifted, the bright point E'a'd circled and the space around it
expanding to fill half the ceiling.  E'a then lowered emself'a back to
the floor and laid down flat on eir'a back, looking up, with one fist
balled under the back of eir'a head.

At first Trace couldn't put together what E was seeing.  The sun had
moved behind their ship, making it two- or three-o'clock on the
surface below them.  And while that lit most of the sides of whatever
they were looking at that faced them, it also cast stark black shadows
within the grey-on-grey of its shapes.  The first thing E figured out
was that the part of the form nearest the planet was a disk,
curved so that it made a shallow sector of a sphere, with the concave
side facing away from the planet so it was illuminated inside.  It had
been difficult to make out at first because the deep shadows
cast onto it by the rest of the structure made it look like several
different pieces at first.  Above that was a narrow "X" shape, more
than twice as tall as it was wide.  The arms of the X appeared to be
uneven octagons, with narrow sides in the plane of the X's front and
back surface, and wide sides at an angle.

E continued to study the shape, trying to find some detail or texture
that would give a hint to scale.  And then it dawned on em: _this was
Spark_, the only moon that circled the world instead of Primary.  From
the surface, the only part that could be seen was the circle at the
base--everything else was narrower and above it.  Most people believed
that Spark was lens-shaped, that its shape and its
smoother-than-other-moons surface were side effects of how it had
formed.  There had always been some who argued that it was artificial,
that it had been left behind by the Saviors.  But E didn't think
anyone had ever suggested that what they could see was merely a shield
or cap on something vastly larger and more complicated.

E wondered when, if, E'd be able to tell people.

While Trace had been studying the main structure, it had been growing
as they got closer.  Its image was also drifting steadily toward the
center of the ceiling, leading em to conclude that it was their
immediate destination.  Maybe "short time" really was, even to a
Chaiken.

It was difficult to make out details of the surfaces, though E had a
vague impression of texture.  While looking, though, E thought E saw a
small silver mote, floating in the gap between the upper arms of the
X.  Trace decided to try manipulating the ceiling, too.

E stood up, stretched eir arms, and walked until E was under the
bright spot on the ceiling.  E put eir arm up, tried to make two
circles with eir hand so that the silver spot was in the center, and
then slashed eir arm out to the side.  Nothing happened.  E glanced
around--Jacob wasn't paying attention to em.  The Chaiken were
watching em, but eir faces were unreadable.  E repeated the
performance, and still there was no change in the ceiling's image.

"Near sigil," said the Chaiken lying a meter from Trace.  "May circle
opposite, end fold hand."

Trace closed eir eyes, repeated what E'a had said in eir head until E
felt sure of the interpretation, and then tried it:  arm up, made two
quick circles going in the opposite direction from before, and then
out to the side, closing eir hand as soon as it stopped moving.  The
image surged and shifted.  Eir circle had captured a chord of one of
the arms of the X, and the spot E'd wanted turned out to be a
free-floating shape, like a top inside of two stacked toroids.

E looked down at the Chaiken and said "Thank you."  Then E sad down
next to em'a, back straight, moving nothing but eir legs.  "I
appreciate the help.  What would you like me to call you?"

E'a had turned eir'a head to follower em as E sat.  "Ahn-asarhoru.
Youse may abridge like 'ru."

"I am happy to meet you, 'ru," Trace said.  Then E leaned forward a
little and held out eir hand.

'ru responded, lifting eir arm and taking Trace's hand in eirs.  "And
I you, Trace."

The handshake was firm and comfortable, with 'ru releasing and drawing
eir arm back after a moment.  Trace decided that E definitely already
knew the gesture, and wondered if it was because they used it, or if
E'd studied human etiquette.  E'a turned back to look at Jacob and
'tah, saw Jacob flashing between staring intently at them and
drawing.  E'a realized that E'a'd become a subject.

*****

It took them another twenty minutes to reach the station and the other
ship.  Their ship had turned a few minutes before, shifting the view
of their destination from ceiling to floor, and begun firing its
engines again.  They were closing in on the ship Trace had spotted
near the top of the station.  Looking toward the planet, the great X
stretched down below them for klicks.  As they'd approached, Jacob
noticed that there was some light scaffolding or cables spanning the
distance between the bottom of the X and inside surface of the round
cap, about twice the width of one of the X's arms.

E struggled to gauge the actual scale of the station, but even with
eir eye, the lack of any familiar shapes to judge distance by, the
stark lighting, and the lack of any parallax through the images on the
walls all defeated em.

The ship they were nearing had a central body circled by two silver
toroids.  The body was a cylinder about half-again taller than its
diameter.  Above and below the straight sides of the cylindrical
section were squat cones, their sides curving in so their profiles
were ogee arches, the points rounded into hemispheres.  The bottom
hemisphere glittered in the sun.

The toroids around the ship looked shiny and polished, like silver or
chrome, in contrast to the matte light grey of the rest of it.  With
the closer view, Jacob could see that the two weren't actually
continuous--they were each made up of several different-length
segments whose ends didn't touch.  Instead, there was a column that
branched from each segment, from different points with different
angles, and went inward toward the body of the ship.  The columns
themselves then divided repeatedly into smaller and smaller branches.
Overall, the effect was as if each segment of the toroids had a tree
sprouting from it, the branches of each mingling with those from the
nearby segments and other toroid, so the main cylinder of the ship
seemed to rest on top of a forest canopy.  Except the floor of this
forest was bent into a ring around the ship's center.

As they continued, E could tell they were lined up to pass directly
over the top point of the ship and they were still slowing relative to
it.  When they reached a point directly above the hemisphere, they
were still relative to the now-large ship below them.  Then their
little ship rotated to place the hemispheric dome below the floor.
Though, with still absolutely no feeling of motion, it felt to Jacob
more like the universe was spinning around em.  E was caught by a new
wave of nausea, and momentarily wondered if it might all be a show,
if everything they'd seen and E'd been so intent on capturing and
remembering, were simply images projected on walls, and they were
still in the ship on the amphitheater stage.

E shuddered and banished the worry--there was no question E'd seen the
small ship land in front of em.  And besides, being fooled into
watching a movie was hardly the worst outcome he'd imagine might come
from taking a Selector.

Then their ship started to move down toward the hemisphere below,
smoother than an elevator.  E could see that they were actually
off-center and coming down toward its sloping side.  As they got close
enough Jacob felt like E could jump the distance, the surface of the
hemisphere just below began to pucker away from them, making a dimple,
then a pocket, in the hemisphere's surface.  When they were well into
the pocket, with its rim showing above the ceiling of their cabin, the
bottom of the pocket seemed to pop.  A hole formed in its center,
quickly widening irregularly, like a slow-motion video of a bubble or
balloon collapsing.  At the same time, a new surface seemed to be
shooting up from the opening in the hemisphere around them.  Within
fifteen seconds, the pocket below and around them was entirely gone,
and a new one had formed above, protruding from the hemisphere and
contracting as they continued to descend.

The pocket's withdrawal revealed a large, brightly lit chamber.  It
was about thirty meters across, and extended down about six from the
curve of the hemisphere over them.  The walls and curved ceiling were
a lavender so light it was almost white, with the floor a couple of
shades darker.  There were two other small ships like theirs on the
floor within, spaced so that, once theirs had settled, they were at
the points of a triangle around the center of the chamber.  There was
a cluster of figures standing near where they would touch down.

The rate of their descent hadn't changed at all until they were only a
couple of meters above the floor, when the legs of their ship extended
suddenly and brought them to a halt on the floor.  Instantly after,
the images cleared from the inside of the two hatches they'd entered
by and the opened out and up.

They were _not_ still in the amphitheater.  Jacob felt the evaporation
of a tiny hope E hadn't realized E'd had.  Bright light streamed
through the hatch and E saw the same view the rest of the walls were
still showing: the large chamber around them, and a group of five
Chaiken a few meters back from where the ship came to rest.  E looked
around, trying to get a hint from the Chaiken or Trace as to what to
do next.  The Chaiken were unmoved, and Trace was still standing next
to 'ru.  After a moment, E simply returned to the couch where E'd been
drawing, and started repacking eir supplies.

Jacob heard a rustling noise from floor above; guessed it might
indicate the other four Saviors were about to come down.  The others
must have also heard.  'ru and 'tah stood; Trace looked up, and then
walked over so that E was next to the base of the stairs.  A moment
later, the Chaiken began to descend the stairs.  The first down was
the one wearing blue.

When E'a stepped off the stairs, Trace was next to em'a, reached out
eir hand, and said "Hello, I'm Trace.  What would you like me to call
you?"  And E got a response.

"Ahn-joyfangtomy.  Youse may abridge like 'my."  'my said nothing
else, shook Trace's hand, and then walked out through one of the open
hatches.

Trace repeated the exchange with the next Chaiken down, in the brown
dickey, and learned eir name was "Ahn-sofnahelmin" or "'min".

As the remaining two Chaiken came past Trace, E repeated eir address
with the exact same language, and got identical replies.  E learned
that the one in the white skirt was Ahn-fortayohliliva and the one in
the safron braccae was Ahn-halangmartilkar.  Like the others, their
nicknames were the last syllables of their full names, 'iva and 'kar.

Jacob struggled to focus on all the new names.  E'd already lost the
full names for 'tah and 'ru, and would have to find a moment alone to
ask Trace to remind em of them.  Thankfully, E had sketched thumbnails
of all six so E'd be able to note the names with the faces later.  The
way their skin and hair colors shifted, E wasn't sure E'd recognize
any of them after they change clothes.

With 'kar's exit, there were only four of them left in the ship.  'tah
and 'ru stepped beside each of the two hatches and made exaggerated
after-you sweeping gestures toward the hatches.  Trace turned and
walked back along the stairs to eir massive bag on the floor.  Jacob
leaned over to start collecting eir'a things, and was just hefting the
second shoulder bag when Trace reached a hatch and stepped through.
E'a hurried after em, feeling the same sensation wash across eir skin
as E passed through that E had when boarding.  But E also felt a
slight lurch forward, and eir foot struck the floor harder than E
expected.  Regaining eir balance as E was all the way out, E realized
that E felt somehow slightly heavier outside the little ship.

Trace had stopped a couple of meters from the little ship, between it
and the group of Chaiken.  Jacob stood next to eir.  "We wait?"

"Definitely."

The Chaiken that had been waiting to meet them were joined by the ones
disembarking.  E didn't see any hugs, but several times a pair would
make a gesture where their hands met, palm to palm, at waist level,
and then would move up, their forearms rolling toward each other until
they were pressed together down to the elbow and their hands at
shoulder level.  Then they would part.  A couple of times he saw them
do it with only one arm from each as they passed beside each other.

E also heard them speaking, E assumed, in something that was decidedly
_not_ Noyglish.  The sounds using were fast, almost chopped, and there
seemed to be a much wider variety, including different tones, clicks
and pops, and a couple of whistles.  E also noticed that the changes
in each's skin color pattern, which had changed gradually for the
Chaiken when E'd first seen them, and hardly at all with 'ru and 'tah
on the trip from Haran, were now startlingly fast, like the ooze of
room-temperature molasses.

The welcoming group varied as much as the Chaiken who had come to the
surface both in clothing, and in skin color and pattern.  But their
clothes did have one common feature.  All of their tops had two orange
stripes on each side, one vertical ending under the arm, about three
centimeters wide, and the other horizontal about ten centimeters long,
at a level about half-way up the ribs.  Jacob wondered if it was a
uniform, a badge, or perhaps signified dress that was more or less
formal than what they'd word to the city.

They continued to wait for their hosts.  E looked around.  Aside from
the three small ships, the chamber seemed empty.  The lighting was
soft and indirect.  Looking for the source, E realized that the entire
ceiling dome was actually glowing faintly.  The floor had a rough
texture, as if the surface was a layer of tiny pebbles, a millimeter
wide and smaller.  But nothing shifted as E rubbed eir boot back and
forth on it, and there was a slight sponginess to it.  There were two
spots, on opposite sides of the room, where there were depressions
angling down along the outer wall, with openings in the floor nearby.

Eventually, 'ru, 'tah, and two of the greeting party separated from
the others and walked back to the humans.  The other Chaiken began
toward the openings in the floor behind and to Jacob's left.  'tah
spoke, "Should thou accompany for quarters."

With that, the other three Chaiken started toward the wall on their
right.  'tah gestured that Jacob and Trace should follow.  As they
reached the wall, Jacob saw that the depressions in the floor were
actually the tops of ramps, about three meters wide.  At the top end
of each, the floor was flat for about four meters, and then there was
simply an opening in the floor.  The hole was about three meters
square with rounded corners, surrounded by a coaming about ten
centimeters wide and raised from the floor about half that.  There
were half a dozen circular pads protruding into the opening from its
inside edge.

The group turned toward the ramp and walked down the gentle slope.  At
first the walls were solid on either side of them, but as they
descended the wall on their left, toward the center of the ship, they
reached a point where the bottom of the wall and top of the ramp split
and curved away from each other.  Continuing, there was no wall to
their left, and it was clear that the floor of the chamber above was
almost two meters thick.  After they'd walked half the circumference
of the level above, they came to another flat patch where the ramp
merged into the floor of the level below the chamber they'd landed in.
What Jacob could see of this level was a wide circular promenade the
ramp had descended into, about 8 meters wide, bounded by the outer
wall of the ship on eir right, and a concentric inner wall on eir
left.  E didn't see any openings in the inner wall.

In front of them was another hole in the floor, about half a meter in
from the outer wall, with the matching hole back into the landing
chamber above directly over it.  There was a row of four windows, each
about two meters square.  Two were in the wall next to the holes, with
one more on either side.  Through the windows E could see space and
unblinking stars, with about a quarter of the view occupied by the
dark limb of Primary.  The reflected light shone from the outside of
the ship, letting em see the outward slope of the ships body below
them, and the shiny toroids beyond that.

As they walked around the hole in the floor to the ramp that started
beyond it, Jacob peered down into it.  It was a long way down.  There
were matching holes through at least a dozen levels, and far below E
could see figures that looked like they were standing in mid-air,
rising and falling past each other.  E got a knot in eir stomach, and
looked away.

They continued on the ramp down three more levels, by which point the
outward curve of the ship's surface provided enough room that the
width of the ramp was entirely outboard of the shaft implied by the
holes in the floors.  Aside from the first, the floors of each level
were all about fifteen centimeters thick, with rounded edges where the
ramps passed through.  The landings on each level between ramps no
longer occurred in the same places as the series of holes passed
through, but each landing did continue to have a set of windows next
to it.

At the next level, the pattern was interrupted.  In the center of the
landing stood a dark figure.  E was short, about a meter and a half
tall, and eir surface was a shiny jet black that seemed to glitter as
they approached.  Eir shape was basically human, with a torso, arms,
legs, and a head, but with many of the details missing.  Jacob
couldn't tell if eir surface was clothing or skin.  It was continuous,
without opening or seam.  So perhaps skin.  But if em was standing
before them nude, E was remarkably smooth.  Not just hairless and
sexless, but with none of the compound curves that reflected a
person's underlying muscles.  Eir head was a simple oval atop a
perfectly round column of neck.  There was no discernible ears or
mouth, though eir face had a protrusion suggesting a nose and dimples
where eyes might be.

As they reached em, E spread eir hands, bowed slightly from the waist
and more from the neck, and said "Welcome.  I am Selanthon, or Sel for
short, and will be serving as your liaison during your stay with us.
Your quarters a quite a few floors below us yet.  Would you prefer to
continue to walk, or to learn to use the lift pads?"

Jacob was surprised and relieved to hear something E could be certain
E understood.  Encouraged by this and by Trace's success earlier, E
stepped forward and stretched out eir hand.  "Hello Sel, I am Jacob
and very pleased to meet you."

Sel held out eir hand and said softly "Don't be shocked."  Jacob took
eir hand and.... was shocked.  Eir'a hand had passed through Sel's,
closing on nothing but air and grit.  Before E'a could figure out what
was in eir'a hand, E'a looked at eir wrist and gasped.  There was
nothing where eir hand had been, and eir forearm was hollow, nothing
but eir glittering outer surface and air.  E'a opened eir'a hand and
saw eir palm and fingers coated with tiny black dots, like a fist full
gloss-black poppy seeds.

"I'm sorry that startled you, Jacob.  But I do appreciate your wanting
to be polite.  I am primarily an electronic cognition simulacrum--the
appearance of a body is to make your interactions with me more
natural.  Please let me know if you would prefer another shape."  As E
had spoken, Jacob had been wiping off eir'a hand.  Most of the
particles that fell began to hover and float back toward Sel.  Those,
and perhaps more from within eir, resolved into a new hand shape,
indistinguishable from how em started.

Sel shifted slightly to face Trace.  "And you are Trace.  Your
descriptions have preceded you.  I hope that you, too, feel welcomed."

Jacob noticed that when Sel spoke, the sound came directly from eir
chest.  And when E wasn't speaking, he could hear a faint whooshing
noise, like the world's quietest fan.

Trace stepped forward with eir arms level at eir waist and wrists bent
so eir palms faced Sel.  E'a responded in kind, and the two repeated
the gesture that they'd seen the Chaiken making earlier upstairs.

When they were done and Trace stepped back, Jacob heard a rhythmic
thumping noise behind em.  Turning back to the Chaiken that had
accompanied them, E saw that the two with stripes on their shirts were
doing the most pathetic attempt at clapping E could imagine.  They
both had their wrists bent so their palms faced each other, and were
moving their entire arms back and forth by pivoting only at the
shoulders, smashing their hands together over and over in front of
their navels.  Thankfully, they soon stopped.

_If trying hard is all it takes for people from very different
cultures to get along_, Jacob thought, _then this might not be that
bad of a trip after all._

"So," said Trace, "do we want to keep walking, or try to learn 'lift
pads?'"

Jacob click-clicked with his tongue.  "Sel, how much longer do you
think it would take to walk?"  E felt tired, with the feeling of
excitement at being Selected and experiencing space flight fading
away, and the fatigue from having been excited for hours straight
starting to settle on em.

"Perhaps another forty-five minutes," Sel offered.

That made em feel more tired.  If the Chaiken E'd seen earlier
floating within the holes in the floors had been using lift pads, E
wasn't sure that E wanted to try to learn right now.  But E was
definitely sure E didn't want to find emself begging the Chaiken for
something to ride twenty minutes from now.

"I guess the lift pads then.  I'm feeling like I'd like to go to sleep
sooner than later."

"Excellent," said Sel, doing an impressive job of miming someone
rubbing their hands together in anticipation.  "Please walk this way."
With that, Sel turned away from them and began walking inward from
where they stood by the windows and outer wall of the ship.

Jacob's attention had been so captured by Sel that E hadn't noticed
that this level was not at all like the others.  The floor here was a
circular promenade as they'd seen on the other levels, but instead of
the inside of the promenade ending at a featureless round wall, here
there was a pit.  E could see entirely across the ship at this level.
It was a circle perhaps sixty meters across, with the promenade all
around the outside and a hole about forty meters across in the center.

Looking down, E could see that there were three levels with matching
central holes  The floor of the level below that seemed mostly solid.
On the opposite side of the ship from where they were standing, Jacob
could see another pair of ramps--one from above, the other going
down.  Just in front of em, where Sel was now standing, was an opening
in the floor, with a square opening above it that E assumed matched
the openings they'd passed all the way up to the hemispherical chamber
at the top of the ship.  But instead of being a square, the opening in
the floor at their level started under the square from above, but
extended all the way to where the circular hole in the floor, so that
it made a long rectangular gap.  And the same was true near the ramp
landing on the opposite side of the ship.  And there were two other
matching gaps a quarter of the way around to the left and the right.
They were arranged so that if they'd extended to the center of the
ship, they'd form a giant plus-sign with three-meter wide strokes.
Through the gaps, E could see that the floors of the next two levels
below them were configured to match.  Below that, the central hole
shrank to about eight meters across but the gaps in the floors
continued to extend almost the full diameter of the ship.

Jacob slowly walked up to the end of the gap in the floor by them,
where Trace and Sel already were.  The canyon below them stretched
down more than 20 levels, to a point where it looked like the floor
was solid.  Eir stomach clenched.

As with the other holes they'd passed, there were a number of circles,
perhaps two-thirds of a meter wide each, extending into the hole from
different points around the edges.  One of the Chaiken that they
hadn't talked to yet stepped between them and onto one of the circles.

"That is a lift pad," Sel said, gesturing.  "You'll each use a
separate one.  You will each get on one next to Ahn-senpoor here.
When you do, step so that you are standing in the center and your
feet are even with each other.  Then, hold 'poor's hand with one of
yours, and keep your other hand at your side and your feet still.  Go
ahead and do that when you're ready."

Trace stepped first, away from Jacob, so that E put 'poor on her left
side.  E stepped, stood, and took eir'a hand.  Both of the pads under
them stayed put.  Jacob followed, taking 'poor's hand in eirs'e.  It
felt warm, dry, comfortable.  The only thing making it feel
_different_ was how much extra fingers E'a had.

Sel continued.  "The pads are controlled with your feet and arms.
To descend, step one foot forward slightly.  The distance you move
your foot forward controls how rapidly you go down.  To go up, step
one foot backward.  The pads will automatically avoid each other, so
you don't have to worry about coming down on top of someone.  Your
arms control motion in the plane of the floors, which we won't need
tonight, so try to keep them still."

E walked into the open space of the hole, around behind Trace, and
stood in mid-air next to 'poor.  "I'm going to count to three.  On the
beat after the clap, move one of your feet about a centimeter
forward.  Do not let go of 'poor's."  E turned eir head toward each of
them in turn, as if looking at them for confirmation.

"Alright.  One.  Two.  Three."

Jacob moved eir right foot.  The pad E was standing on started to move
down, shifting a little way inward from the edge of the hole as it did
so.  For about the first meter, Jacob fell fastest, followed by Trace
on 'poor.  But then their speeds evened out, and their pads slowly
drifted so they were on the same level as they continued to descend
together.  Sel descended along side them, without a pad, seeming to
simply be standing next to them with eir'a hands clasped together in
front of em.  They were going down a little faster than if they were
on an escalator, around three or four seconds per level.

At first they were dropping straight down, and from level to level the
ends of the floor gaps became farther away from them.  It seemed that
they were still within the curved-in cone at the top of the ship, so
each level they passed was wider than the one before.  After passing
through several levels the length of the gaps became consistent, and
the group started drifting sideways along with down, until they were
descending near the ends of the gaps again.  Jacob wondered if that
were also somehow automatic, or something that Sel or 'poor was doing
that E couldn't see.

"To stop descending, just move your foot back to being in line with
the other.  If you stop near a floor, the pad will automatically come
into line with the level.  We are going to stop one level above the
solid floor you see below us.  I'm going to count to three again, and
after I do, move your forward foot back to center."

Sel paused for a long moment, and then "One.  Two.  Three."

All three pads slowed rapidly about a meter above the floor, and then
drifted the rest of the way down to touch the outboard edge of the
floor gap and stopped.  Trace whooped and literally leapt from eir pad
into a corridor.

Jacob let go of 'poor's hand, and realized that eir had been sweating.
E looked up into 'poor's eyes.  Eir'a face was round except for a
narrow chin, and eir'a eyes were blue with brown semi-circles at the
bottoms of the irises.  "Thank you," said Jacob.

'poor replied "Pleasant self."

*****

Trace's landing on the new floor was satisfyingly solid, the feeling
of eir feet and legs taking eir weight while the ground stayed put was
reassuring, even though E seemed noticeably heavier since they'd
arrived.  E was also relieved eir balance was steady--while they'd
been coming down, E'd felt mild waves of dizziness as they'd passed
through each floor.

E looked around.  They were in a large alcove, about six meters
square, that connected from the floor gap behind eir to a corridor
that went to the left and right.  While Jacob was still dismounting
the pad and saying something behind eir, E walked forward to look
around the corner.  The hallway was long, about four meters wide, and
curved away behind eir in both directions.  There were recessed
panels, which E guessed were doorways, every seven or eight meters
along the outer wall, with only a couple doors in the inner wall
visible.  They were all tall, almost to the ceiling, and just a bit
wider than Trace was used to.

The floor here had the same slightly-rough texture and spring as it
had everywhere they'd been in the ship so far, but here it was a light
pastel green.  The ceiling was an even lighter shade of green, with
that same uncanny not-quite-glow as the others.  It was clear the
lighting was coming evenly from the ceiling, and it was bright, but it
gave no sense that the light was actually originating from it.  As if
the hall was lit with indirect lighting bounced off the ceiling
without the original source being evident.

The walls were largely covered with patterns, in light colors, mostly
pastels with occasional vivid details.  Trace had the impression of a
series of murals, either abstracts or impressionist renderings of
things E couldn't recognize.  The doors were decorated as well, some
to blend into the surrounding image, some to complement it, and the
frames around each were unique.



schön

