---
---


## Chapter 5

Jacob stepped through the hatch and into the ship.  E could feel the
threshold, as if an invisible inner door had parted just at the edges
of eir body.  E passed through, a sensation sweeping across em, part
cold, as if a metal rolling pin were being passed over eir bare skin
from front to back, and part oddly uncomfortable, like biting into a
too-hot pepper, if somehow eir skin was able to taste.

E also had a clenching in eir stomach, like being in an elevator that
was starting to sink and ascend simultaneously.  Once E was two full
steps inside, E paused, literally shaking eir head to clear it, and
then looked around.  The single circular room looked like it occupied
the entire bottom of the ship.  Bright light cam in the hatch behind
em, and the other one to eir right that the sword-performer now stood
in front of, bent over with eir'a hands on eir'a knees.

It was dim inside.  Jacob might have described it as mood lighting,
except it had a cool, grey tone instead of warm.  The floor, ceiling,
and circular wall were all glowing with images of the amphitheater and
sky.  The effect was uncanny--as if the outside of the ship were made
from darkened glass, except the images were obviously flat, with no
sense of parallax from the objects outside.  There was a solid black
band, about fifteen centimeters wide, around the floor where the wall
joined it, at the corner between wall and ceiling, and around an
oblong opening in the ceiling about a third of the way around the ship
to their right.  The opening was above what Jacob realized was a
curving staircase from this room into what must be one above it.

E recoiled for a moment at the thought of the stairs--they seemed
incredibly unsafe.  The treads weren't even as deep as the length of
eir foot, and the distance up from each was larger than the treads'
depth.  Each step was barely a centimeter thick, protruding directly
from the wall, with no apparent support.  There was nothing connecting
the steps together vertically, and no railing.  Nothing at all to stop
a small child or animal from falling off or through.

This didn't seem to bother the Saviors though, as the one that the
other person was following reached the bottom of them and started up.
Jacob was startled by how E ascended--seeming to just keep walking
with eir normal stride length, regardless of the number of steps up
each step forward took them.  As E was going up, the Savior Jacob had
followed turned around to face them.  Em'a raised and spread eir'a
arms, in what Jacob took to be a welcoming gesture.  "Comfort-taking,
sit or stand," the Savior said.  E'a was the one with the soprano
voice.  "Three Moments on, leaving Gan.  Should make ease."  And with
that, E'a turned again and mounted the steps.

Jacob turned to the other person, who was standing again.  "So, did
that mean that we should stay down here?  Oh, and hi, I'm Jacob."

E passed eir hand over eir face, turned to em'a, and tried to grin.
Though Jacob could still see the shine of tears in the corners of eir
beautiful, dark eyes.  "Hello Jacob, I'm Trace."

"I'm happy to meet you.  And very happy they didn't invite just one of
us.  I believe I've seen you perform."  E didn't want to mention the
day E filmed em'a practicing under the oaks.  "That was you in the
circus last spring, fighting off all those jugglers' batons?"

Trace's grin became real, almost sheepish.  "Yes, that was my act.
I'm glad it was memorable.  I think I've seen your work, too.  Are you
the one who drew the series of pictures of the city viewed from the
blimp?"



"And yes," E said, shifting the large bag on eir back
